1000 M is the third subchapter of Chapter 7: The Summit in Celeste. The subchapter brings back the mechanics of Chapter 2 and utilizes them in new ways. In the final room of the subchapter, Madeline and Badeline will talk to each other while being boosted up from the last purple orb, then combine back together to enter the next subchapter.

This subchapter uses space blocks in all of the rooms, which are especially interesting to interact with since Madeline gets two mid-air dashes here. The fifth room of the subchapter will provide two transitions from the top which each lead to a different room, but after both of those rooms is the same convergence. A lot of screens in this subchapter can be made considerably easier by knowing the space block jump technique— learned in Chapter 2's B-Side. Additionally, the second screen of the subchapter can be easier navigated with the space block re-grab technique which is seen in Chapter 2's C-Side.

The emerald piece of the Crystal Heart of this chapter is located in a room behind a secretive smashable wall. This smashable wall is found by going up the right path of the fifth room of the subchapter and making it to the top of the room where two space blocks are seen right before the end. In the gap between these two, the smashable wall is on the right side. In the secret room, there are three key tokens to collect with some moving space blocks all around the large area on the right. This room can be played patiently to ensure the player's safety to collect the key tokens and unlock the key-activated platform and open up the way to the emerald piece.

There are 6 Strawberries found in this subchapter.

Going left of the fourth room of the subchapter reveals a room containing this Strawberry, hovering all the way on the left side. This berry is deceptively tricky the collect, you'll first need to get to it by just dashing left through the space blocks and jumping into it. Fall down and dash right into the dash crystals and then dash up to boost up through the space block and keep moving right. Dash into the next dash crystal and then dash to the wall on the right (diagonally upward, if needed). Climb this wall and then dash diagonally up-left appropriately through the space block's gaps or alternatively dash up-right to make it through the small area on the right of the space block.

Go to the right transition of the fifth room of the subchapter to reach this berry's room. You'll need to do some diagonally upward dashes to get up the space block and find the Strawberry at the top hovering over spikes. Do a dash straight across the spikes to grab the berry, then use your second dash to go diagonally downward through the space block and do this again at the bottom to return back to safety.

Go up the left path of the fifth room of the subchapter and you can find a slight dent in the right wall past where the first space block on the right is. Dash from the left side of this space block into this area to be taken to the other path in a small area containing this Strawberry.

Go to the left transition of the seventh room of the subchapter to see this Strawberry. To get to it, dash to the left wall of the room and from there you simply do a diagonally up-right dash followed by a diagonally up-left dash to get up the space blocks. You can then fall down, avoiding some spikes, on the right to reach the berry.

Found in the eighth room of the subchapter, you can find this Strawberry above the second space block in a suspicious hidden area reached by dashing left over the spikes above.

Found in the ninth room of the subchapter, this berry is like the last subchapter's final berry in that it lies beyond the final purple orb of the room. Climb up the wall to the right of the purple orb to find an out of place block of ice. This smashable wall contains the last Strawberry.

07 - The Summit (No More Running Mix)

1000 M is the third subchapter of Chapter 7: The Summit B-Side in Celeste. The subchapter resembles Chapter 2 and uses that chapter's mechanics in new challenges. In the final room, after reaching the purple orb at the end, the player will be taken to the next subchapter.

This subchapter will have a few rooms with no floors or floors of spikes where the player must keep themself in the air with space blocks and their dash restoration. Space block jumps are mandatory to complete some rooms here, so any player who hasn't completed Chapter 2's B-Side should go back and learn this technique before attempting this subchapter.

From the start of the room, you can jump and dash straight right into the first space block and space block jump out of it. Next, after falling for a bit, you should dash straight right, then up-right into the corner of the next space block to enter it diagonally. Shortly after exiting this space block, dash down-right to enter the next space block, then after exiting it dash straight right and up-right again into another space block. Move to the right after popping out of this space block to fall between the spiked floors, then dash straight right and up-right once again into the next space block. Do two dashes straight to the right after exiting this space block, then fall to the left to hit the spring and be bounced right with both dashes restored. Dash straight up and grab the wall to the left, then jump off to the right and dash up again, then climb out of the room. A player who is adept at wall bounces can actually wall bounce off using their first straight up dash to reach the end quicker.

Walk into the spring to be bounced up, then dash straight up and straight right into the space block. Quickly dash straight right again after popping out of the space block to enter another one, then you need to quickly dash straight down and straight right to avoid spikes and enter another space block. After a space block jump out of the previous space block, you'll arrive at a pair of space blocks separated by a platform with spikes all over it. There are two methods to finish the room from here. For the first method, you can dash right into the lower space block and space block jump out of it, then dash straight up and straight left, then dash straight up to through the room transition. The second method, however, is much easier. Grab the space block instead of dashing into it, then jump off of it to the left and you can dash straight up twice to reach the end without having to go around at all.

You'll need to make dashes into fairly small space blocks in this room multiple times in succession to make it to the end. Dash straight up from the start of the room, then dash right once and grab the left wall nearby. Jump off of it to the right and dash straight up into a space block to restore both of your dashes. Fall to the right after popping out, then fall a bit before dashing straight right and straight up into another small space block. Fall to the right again, carefully avoiding the bit of spikes at the right, then again dash straight right and straight up into yet another small space block. You'll then be able to be bounced by a spring, after which you need to fall carefully between some spikes below before dashing straight right and straight up into a space block again. Wait a bit after popping out of this one, then fall to the left a bit, then dash straight right and straight up into the last space block of the room.

Dash into the first space block and jump out of it to get far to the right, then you can dash straight up twice to reach the purple orb. After you're thrown up, dash into the space block to the left and space block jump out of it, then dash straight up and begin to climb the corridor. Once you're lined up with the next space block, dash to the right and space block jump, then dash to the right again into the purple orb. Dash straight up after you regain control, then straight left a bit after into another space block which you should space block jump to the left from followed shortly after by a diagonally up-left dash. You'll then reach a bit of the left wall, and from here you can jump to the right and dash straight right and space block jump again, then dash up-right to reach a bit of the right wall above. Jump to the left and dash left here, then space block jump and quickly dash straight up and straight right into another space block. Space block jump again and dash straight up shortly after, then dash straight left into the final space block. You can jump out of this space block and dash straight up to reach the top of the room, where you can go over to the spring and bounce on it, then you can dash straight up into the purple orb and be taken to the next subchapter.

18 - Reach for the SummitCassette Room:07 - The Summit (8-Bit)

1500 M is the fourth subchapter of Chapter 7: The Summit in Celeste. The subchapter brings back the mechanics of Chapter 3 and utilizes them in new ways. The Cassette to unlock Chapter 7's B-Side can be obtained in this subchapter. In the final room of the subchapter, Madeline and Badeline will talk to each other while being boosted up from the last purple orb, then combine back together to enter the next subchapter.

Dust bunnies and sludge variants will make up most of the challenges in this subchapter, with careful stalling inbetween moving sludges using both mid-air dashes being a key strategy. This will be a difficulty spike from the previous subchapters as many rooms can be very hard without good knowledge of the proper timing windows to get through them. In the fourth room of the subchapter, a single key token floats within 4 moving sludges in a rhombus formation. Wait at the left ledge, watching for when a moving sludge goes from the bottom diagonally to the left. Right when this moving sludge goes back to the bottom, jump forward and dash diagonally behind it into the key token, then keep moving right nudging yourself forward ever so slightly through the other moving sludges. In the room right after it, the middle section should be done with only straight right dashes to consistently graze over the dust bunnies. The rest of that room and the two after it will just be getting good timings past moving sludges and/or circling sludges, so watch until you see the right time to fall down and dash forward. The ninth room of the subchapter is a large pool of dust bunnies with a spring attached to a platform above and a moving sludge on the right. Wait for this moving sludge to be on either side (aka, when it isn't currently moving) to dash straight up into the spring and hold no inputs, then dash diagonally up-right to safely fall into the gap.

The gold piece of the Crystal Heart of this chapter is located in a room hidden through a passage at the right end of the seventh room of the subchapter. This room will merely require some decent timing dashing inbetween moving sludges to eventually get to the gold piece.

The Cassette room is located just above the start of the fifth room of the subchapter through a hole in the ceiling. The Cassette collection can actually be tricky here, but the main trick is stalling in the air with both of your dashes to wait out the cassette block alternation.

There are 8 Strawberries found in this subchapter.

Found in the first room of the subchapter, this Strawberry is hovering on the right side out of the way of the main path forward. It's possible to jump and then dash twice to the right quickly into the dash crystal, then immediately dash straight up twice and grab onto the wall next to the berry. After collecting the berry and waiting for the dash crystal to reappear, fall down when the time is right and dash twice to the left in quick succession right after reclaiming your dashes.

By going into the gap in the floor of the third room of the subchapter, an extremely secretive area is uncovered. In this room below, this Strawberry is found. From the right side, you can just jump off the ledge and dash to the left when the moving sludge won't be in your way to reach the sinking platform. Jump and dash to the left off of this platform when the circling sludge and moving sludge are not in the way and you can get to the berry. Do the same back to the right with your remaining one dash and repeat again to get back to the ledge.

By going into the gap in the floor from the previous Strawberry's room, another secret room is accessed. This room has many key tokens surrounded by many platforms with sludge-spawning tiles on them and no floor. There are many ways to go about collecting them all but the easiest will start with the player standing on the disappearing platform and dashing left to climb the platform you arrive at. Jump left over the sludge and then dash diagonally up-left BEFORE touching the dash crystal to get your dashes back after doing the dash. Do another dash leftward for safety to collect the first key token, then dash over to the right to climb up the bottom platform. Jump over this platform to the right to collect another key token and grab onto the platform above. Stamina will be running low by now, so climb a bit and jump to the left to the other platform, then wall jump back and jump into the dash crystal. From here, fall down inbetween the gap of sludge from the lowest platform and the first platform and keep moving right, then dash straight to the right into the third key token and then straight up. Climb up the right side of the platform and jump to the last key token, then wait for the key-activated platform to go down and land on it to then go to the Strawberry.

Found in the fifth room of the subchapter, this Strawberry is in the middle section of the room at the bottom around many dust bunnies. There's a bridge to stand on to the left of it, so stand there and face right. Dash right into the berry and then quickly move left and dash diagonally up-left just before falling to the bottom to then reach the bridge again and claim the Strawberry.

Found in the sixth room of the subchapter, this berry is near a circling sludge and dash crystal at the top middle. Stand on top of the lower middle platform and wait until the circling sludge passes the Strawberry, then jump and dash straight up into it, then do another dash diagonally up-right into the dash crystal. Dash at the proper time to get past the moving sludge on the right and again to make it to safety.

Go left of the eighth room of the subchapter to find another room which contains this Strawberry at the left side. For this you'll want to start by standing pretty close to the room transition on the right. When the moving sludges reach the right, do a jump and then a diagonally up-left dash and hold left to reach the dash crystal. Then, quickly a diagonal up-left dash and a straight up dash just after. After the straight up dash, start holding left again and fall into the other dash crystal and do a straight up dash when the moving sludge above passes, then a diagonally up-left dash to arrive at the left area. From here you can collect the berry and get back by dashing into the spring above and doing two dashes back to the right in the air.

At the end of the eighth room of the subchapter, a smashable wall on the floor can be seen which leads to a hidden room containing this Strawberry. The path to collect this berry looks far more complicated then it actually is. Walk off the ledge and do a dash straight to the right, then a dash straight up to get between the dust bunnies. Hold right from there into the dash crystal and dash right and straight up again to get past the next part. Continue holding right to collect the dash crystal and the Strawberry, then dash straight up twice into the spring to bounce you to the left, where you can do some dashes to the left to get back to the start. However, there's also a shortcut to a later room located just above the spring in a hidden wall, so after hitting the spring you could dash right twice to get to this area and continue onward.

In the tenth room of the subchapter, there's a small gap seen in the ceiling which can be entered. The room entered from there will have a Winged Strawberry boxed in the bottom-right corner with no feasible way to touch it. Above it is also a heap of dust bunnies. This berry will need to be collected as it's flying away. Jump to the spring at the left side and wait until you can pass the moving sludge and hit the next spring to be bounced to the right. Grab the wall you arrive at and wait until the other moving sludge is moving down to jump into the spring above and grab the platform the moving sludge is guarding. Quickly jump over it to the next wall, and again to the next wall on the left which you'll need to dash up into in order to hit the spring. After hitting the spring, you need to quickly dash over to the open area in the top-right to collect the Winged Strawberry before it flies away.

07 - The Summit (No More Running Mix)

1500 M is the fourth subchapter of Chapter 7: The Summit B-Side in Celeste. The subchapter resembles Chapter 3 and uses that chapter's mechanics in new challenges. In the final room, after reaching the purple orb at the end, the player will be taken to the next subchapter.

Much like its A-Side counterpart, this subchapter will be focused on getting good dash timings on the right cycles to narrowly avoid moving sludges all over. A recommended strategy for a lot of this subchapter is leaving and re-entering rooms to consistently get the first cycle of the room and have much more consistency on the required timings.

The first spring you have to reach in this room is below a moving sludge going left and right isolated above dust bunnies all over. Jump off the ledge when the moving sludge is at either side and dash diagonally up-right which should let you land comfortably on the spring. After bouncing up, move right a bit until dashing straight right through the gap in the dust bunnies, then fall a bit more and dash straight right again into the wall and grab it. When the moving sludge above is at the bottom, wait and jump up onto the spring as soon as it starts going up, then move right until eventually doing an up-right dash followed by a straight up-dash to then grab the wall to the left. Jump to the right and land on the spring, then move right in the air after bouncing to then dash up-right and straight up to grab the next wall to the left. Watch the moving sludge to the right until it's at the bottom, then jump to the right when it's about to move up and land on the spring, then keep moving right and dash straight right and up-right through the dust bunnies and making it past the last moving sludge to reach the end.

Watch the closest moving sludge to ensure your timing is right. Jump up into the spring when the moving sludge is leaving either edge, though it's easier when the moving sludge is at the bottom going up. In this scenario, dash straight right once, then again shortly after. This will land you at a checkpoint of the room at the midpoint. Watch the next set of moving sludges, jumping to the right and quickly dashing up-right when the closest one is at the top to reach a dash crystal. From here, fall a bit before dashing diagonally up-right once, then stalling a bit more, then do it again to reach another dash crystal. Fall a bit further before being able to dash up-right and quickly straight right to make it to the end.

This will be a room where cycles are crucial to know and stalling in the air is very important for corrections. Jump off the ledge to the right and dash straight right, then straight up to the right of the spring, then fall to underneath the spring and grab the wall. Climb up to just below the spring and watch the set of two moving sludges to the right. Climb up into the spring when both moving sludges reach the edge to safely be bounced to the next section of the room. Depending on your cycle, many situations could arise from here, but generally your next actions should be aiming for the spring on the left to get a key token, then aim to land on the moving platform with a spring, stalling with a straight up dash if needed. Note that dashing straight up into the ceiling above can be helpful for manipulating your timing as opposed to in the open area to the left and right. For the key token below, stall for a bit until you see an opportunity where the moving platform and moving sludge are both at opposing sides, at which point you should fall into the key token and dash straight up once or twice to escape, then landing back on the spring. Bounce on the spring on the left side then dash straight up and grab the wall, waiting for the circling sludge to move to the lower half of its path to jump to the left for another key token, then hit the spring to the lower left again to reach the moving platform again. Watch the moving sludge to the upper right for when it's away from the wall to dash straight up and climb up above its path, then wait for it to move away from the right to jump into the key token and land on the spring below with a dash in whatever direction is needed. After bouncing on the moving spring and going right, dash straight right into the last key token, then jump to the left and dash straight up and you can reach the end corridor.

This room is a single vertical corridor with moving sludges on diagonal paths and springs all over. The timings can seem overwhelmingly inconsistent at first, but there is always a guaranteed way to do it. Jump to the right when the first moving sludge goes to the top, then dash diagonally up-left into the spring as soon as it starts going down. Dash up-right two times into the next spring, then up-left two times to hit another spring. Let the moving sludge above pass to the right before doing two up-left dashes into yet another spring. Again, let the moving sludge above pass and go to the left before dashing up-left two times to bounce off another spring. Quickly dash up-right, then shortly after dash up-right again into the spring to the right to allow for the moving sludge to move behind you and allow you to be bounced left. Dash straight up, then the moving sludge to the left will move out of the way and allow you to dash up-left into the spring and be bounced back to the center of the room, just below the purple orb. Dash straight up twice to reach the purple orb and be taken to the next subchapter.

2000 M is the fifth subchapter of Chapter 7: The Summit in Celeste. The subchapter brings back the mechanics of Chapter 4 and utilizes them in new ways. In the final room of the subchapter, Madeline and Badeline will talk to each other while being boosted up from the last purple orb, then combine back together to enter the next subchapter.

The double mid-air dash granted in this chapter will shake up interactions with quite a few of the objects in this subchapter. Remember that wind doesn't affect Madeline's speed while dashing and that green bubbles grant back both dashes as these will be needed for many rooms. The sixth and seventh rooms of the subchapter will be long rooms based around guided platforms and triggered platforms respectively. For the former, moving the guided platform up and down so it can pass through gaps of crystals and not break on a wall will be required. Additionally, the player will need to move a triggered platform at the end out of the way, allowing the guided platform to continue to the end of the room. For the latter, the triggered platform moves straight up for the whole room and the player is just tasked with moving out of the way of spikes with careful stalling with both of their dashes.

The diamond piece of the Crystal Heart of this chapter is in a very peculiar location which first requires the player to go left of the second room of the subchapter. This leads to a seemingly pointless room, however the left transition of this room will lead to another room. To get there, a hidden passage within the gap right above the crystal spikes can be dashed into, allowing the player to get the distance needed to reach the left side. If the player is adept at wavedashing, they can do that from the right of the crystal spikes and get to the left side that way. In the following room to the left, the player needs to jump and do a dash to the left just underneath the long protrusion in the ceiling, then do an upward dash to climb this protrusion from the left side at the top, do a jump to the left and a hidden area up above will let Madeline get both dashed back. Next, slide down the ledge from this breather area and hold left. A diagonally up-left dash and then a well-timed straight up dash can get the player on the left side of the next dip in the ceiling and by climbing up it, the area with the diamond piece is accessed. From there a simple area will take Madeline back to the first detour room.

There are 8 Strawberries found in this subchapter.

Above the second room of the subchapter, a small gap in the ceiling is seen on the left side. By going into the left screen transition and dashing up back to the second room, you can get into this gap. In it is a room filled with some pink clouds and crystals. Jump right after you land on the pink clouds to not be bounced into the crystals and you can easily make it to the end of this room where the Strawberry floats.

Found in the fifth room of the subchapter, this Strawberry floats at the far-right side below the ending bridge. To get to it, you'll need to get to the left ledge just below and dash straight right, then straight up and hold onto the wall. Climb high and wait for a snowball to come at you, then jump onto it or just let it hit you from below and then dash straight right twice to then climb the right wall and collect this berry.

Found in the seventh room of the subchapter, this is one of the trickiest berries to collect in the game. Ride the triggered platform up for a bit and then after passing the disappearing platform, you'll need to precisely stall in the air and eventually dash into the dash crystal at the same time the triggered platform is there. Jump off and then dash straight up into the Strawberry, then repeat this process again when the triggered platform arrives. Finally, you'll need to do a dash straight up and then straight to the right to land back on the triggered platform and, by finishing the room, collect the Strawberry.

In the eighth room of the subchapter, you can go to the left transition to find a room with this Winged Strawberry. By jumping from the right ledge, you can make it the left floating platform. Jump to the right and climb to the top of the right floating platform before jumping all the way to the left. With a straight left dash, then a quick straight up dash, you can catch the Winged Strawberry before it flies away.

In the room of the previous Strawberry, a smashable wall is seen on the ceiling which leads to another room with a Strawberry. In this room you need to first approach the guided platform by doing a straight up dash and then a straight right dash. Guide this guided platform to the right as it goes up and fall into the green bubble. Direct that green bubble up-right and then a straight up and straight right dash can get you to the other green bubble. For this one, launch it straight upward and then fall down and dash right in the gap of the crystals to reach the berry.

Above the room of the previous Strawberry's room is yet another secret berry room, accessed by leading the guided platform at the start to the left and riding it to the top transition of the screen. The room that follows is a seeded Strawberry challenge. Like seen in Chapter 4's seeded Strawberry, once you collect a seed the wind will start to blow to the left. Go to the top-right of the screen and dash into the nearby seed. Fall down into the dash crystal, where you'll then diagonally dash up-left and jump constantly up the wall (in order to save stamina) and at the top, move right to collect the next seed. Jump off this wall and onto the right side of the floating platform, then jump over it and go to the left to climb the left wall into the final seed.

Found in the ninth room of the subchapter, this Strawberry will be very straightforward to collect. As you're being carried to the right by the wind, you can see this Strawberry in a small gap of crystals, so dash straight into it and then up-right to get into the green bubble and complete the room normally from there.

Found in the eleventh room of the subchapter, this Strawberry will have a familiar method of reaching it as some prior subchapters. At the end of the room where the purple orb would take you to the next subchapter, avoid the purple orb and dash to the right underneath it into the suspicious cracked wall with no crystals on it. Hidden in this area is a Strawberry.

07 - The Summit (No More Running Mix)

2000 M is the fifth subchapter of Chapter 7: The Summit B-Side in Celeste. The subchapter resembles Chapter 4 and uses that chapter's mechanics in new challenges. In the final room, after reaching the purple orb at the end, the player will be taken to the next subchapter.

Wind will be present in most of the rooms in this subchapter to blow the player to the left. Carefully bouncing on specific objects will be required for all of the rooms here, such as bouncing on both kinds of clouds, springs, or snowballs— all while carefully moving forward against the wind. Dash timing will be very important to keep up forward momentum while not colliding with any crystals.

Walk to the right and approach the area below the green bubble. Jump up and dash straight up twice to enter the green bubble, then aim it right and dash straight right once more after popping out. You'll land on a white cloud below, then you have to nudge yourself forward carefully as you time doing a bounce up, then falling a bit before dashing right twice to land on another white cloud. Stay on this white cloud by walking slightly right on it until you find a time to dash straight right twice, which should be done in the middle of the fall from the small natural bounces off of the white cloud. You'll then land on one more white cloud, and you should carefully time doing a large bounce while moving to the right on it, then dashing straight up, moving a bit left with the wind, then dashing straight up again to climb to the end of the room.

This room will have one big triggered platform with springs on top of it which you need to travel with to the right side of the room. Dash up on top of the triggered platform, then you'll bounce on the springs. Fall, then on your next bounce dash right through the gap of the crystals. In the next section, you'll need to time dashing straight right during your descent from the spring bounce to make it through some crystal gaps. After four of these, you'll be met with a taller wall of crystals which you need to dash up-right over, then keep moving right as you fall to then dash straight right and grab the right side of the triggered platform. When you're just about to be moved into crystals on the right, climb as high as possible and jump straight up and move right, then grab the triggered platform again. The next time you have to do this, land on the springs after jumping up to get two dashes refreshed and dash straight up to the end.

The wind will be harsh in this room and there are huge gaps between small floors over the bottomless pit. Use two dashes to get to the first one on the left, then you'll be met with snowballs approaching from the right which will be your main method of getting further. Stay running to the right on this small bit of floor and watch for the oncoming snowball. When it's about halfway past the gap, jump and right after dash straight to the right to get a bit boost right alongside bouncing on the snowball to refresh your dashes. From there, dash straight right twice to reach the next safe spot. Repeat this same technique to make it to another floor to the right, then from there you can dash right normally to advance through the wind.

Dash twice to touch the purple orb, then you'll be able to land on a white cloud above. Do a bounce up from here, then time a dash to the left to reach the next purple orb. Jump right off the left wall, then dash straight right twice to land on the pink cloud and remove it (though make sure you're nudging yourself right after hitting it to not be blown into crystals to the left), allowing you to fall below and dash right twice into the next purple orb. Do a wall jump to the right, then dash straight up, then wall jump to the right again and dash straight up again to reach purple orb again and be flung up. Move a bit to the right for your fall, then dash straight left to evade the spikes and crystals, then dash back right once you're beneath them and you'll collect a key token while reaching a white cloud. Bounce up from this white cloud and the key-activated platform above should be out of the way, allowing you to dash upward twice to reach the purple orb and be taken to the next subchapter.

2500 M is the sixth subchapter of Chapter 7: The Summit in Celeste. The subchapter brings back the mechanics of Chapter 5 and utilizes them in new ways. In the final room of the subchapter, Madeline and Badeline will talk to each other while being boosted up from the last purple orb, then combine back together to enter the next subchapter.

Although there are no Seekers or related objects to them here, this subchapter can still be a bit tricky. Most notably, some swap block sections can be quite hard to figure out, especially with having the ability to dash twice in the air. A few rooms in, a path will split and progression forward will be blocked by a lock. The key to unlock it is in the room above, but in order to reach it, the player must ride a red bubble from below up to it. The room right after the lock has a secret entrance to a path above with much harder rooms, but this is mostly just for Strawberries. The final room of the subchapter is quite long and will need a lot of back-and-forth movement upward while using momentum from swap blocks.

The pearl piece of the Crystal Heart of this chapter can be accessed by first going left of the first room of the subchapter. There's a smashable wall leading to another room (which can also easily be entered just by riding the red bubble to the left) and this room has a Strawberry. There's also a red bubble in that room, and by taking it right, Madeline will be able to travel above all of the first and second room of the subchapter. Go up from the second room of the subchapter beyond the disappearing platform to be taken to another room which is filled with crystals and dash crystals with some red bubbles and swap blocks as well. At the right end of this room, the pearl piece is found and the after going right of it, the player arrives in the room above the lock room.

There are 8 Strawberries found in this subchapter.

By riding the first red bubble of the subchapter left (or just dashing into the smashable wall it breaks) a room with a Strawberry is reached. This berry will seem very out of reach, but it is possible. Stand on the bridge above and dash into the floor, then quickly run off the bridge and land in the red bubble. Take the red bubble left and, as soon as you reach the wall, jump right and grab the swap block. Let go right as it arrives back on the top and you'll be flung into the air. With both of your dashes in the section above, you can dash to the left and get the berry, then dash back to the right and claim it.

Found in the first room of the subchapter, this Strawberry is found in the middle of the room under the usual red bubble path. Dash straight down into the gap of the spikes when passing it in the red bubble, then dash diagonally up-right to land on the disappearing platform. Jump up and do an upward, then diagonally up-right dash out of the area to another disappearing platform, then dash to get into the nearby red bubble.

This berry is found in the same room as the key above the fifth room of the subchapter, just on the left side instead of the right. To get it, just take the red bubble path two rooms below on the left to get to the Strawberry's location.

At the start of the eighth room of the subchapter, ride the first red bubble straight up to reveal a hidden path above. This Strawberry is found at the end of the first room you enter above a disappearing platform. First, you should make your way to the spring on the right and try to grab the wall above it. When the swap block is about halfway back to its original position, bounce on the spring and hold onto the swap block. From there, you can dash to the berry.

After finishing the room of the previous Strawberry's location, two more rooms have to be completed after it. For the first room after, careful timing by jumping and dashing up into dash switches while avoiding blades, then doing it again but with springs. In the second room after, the Strawberry is located at the end. The first challenge in the room just has you dashing on a swap block and launching yourself forward by jumping right after. Then, you'll need some careful dash timing around some blades and you can reach the berry at the end.

Found in the twelfth room of the subchapter, this Strawberry is located in a hidden area near the middle of the room. Below the swap block which is meant to launch you up to the last two swap blocks, a hidden passage is revealed by entering from the left side.

Right by the red bubble which you ride up into the purple orb, a few secretive areas are located. To the top-left of the red bubble, a dash switch is found. To the top-right of the red bubble, a temple gate which opens from that dash switch is seen and it protects another dash switch. To the bottom-right of the red bubble, this Strawberry is found behind a temple gate which the top-right dash switch unlocks.

To the bottom-left of the red bubble at the end of the twelfth room of the subchapter, the wall will reveal a hidden section with this Strawberry.

07 - The Summit (No More Running Mix)

2500 M is the sixth subchapter of Chapter 7: The Summit B-Side in Celeste. The subchapter resembles Chapter 5 and uses that chapter's mechanics in new challenges. In the final room, after reaching the purple orb at the end, the player will be taken to the next subchapter.

A big part of the challenges in this subchapter is needing good knowledge of swap block momentum. Dashing into oncoming swap blocks to get large boosts the other direction or just letting go as they arrive to get a vertical boost will be important mechanics to be aware of in this subchapter.

Jump up to stand next to the spring on the ground and jump on it. While not staying too far to the left with your bounce, dash straight to the left and boost off the swap block to get launched far to the right over the layer of crystals, then do one more dash to make it to the disappearing platform. When the disappearing platform vanishes, dash straight left into the swap block below and use the momentum to boost to the right again, then dash straight up and climb to the ending ledge.

This room will contain corridors very narrowly divided by tons of spikes and traversal is exclusively via red bubbles. Follow the first red bubble's path to the right, dashing straight up and straight right accordingly to reach the next red bubble. Aim this red bubble straight down, then dash right out of it to make it between the spikes above and below, then dash straight up into another red bubble. Take this red bubble down-right, then shortly after dash diagonally up-right twice to make it to another red bubble. This red bubble should be taken up-right almost to the point of colliding with the spikes on the ceiling, but just before hitting them you should dash straight right and hold left to hug the left wall as you descend. You can then dash right to another red bubble and follow its path to the right, dash straight up and left, and you'll be at the last red bubble. Take it straight up and shortly after dash straight right twice, then hold left to make sure you don't land on the last set of spikes.

This room will have tricky swap block locations that make you need to predict where they will be and dash accordingly. Jump off the starting ledge and dash up-right to reach where the swap block to the right will be. Wall jump quickly to the left and back right off of another swap block. This will align you to easily dash straight right and grab a swap block. Climb up it as it rises back up, and just as it reaches the top, let go to give yourself a boost upward, then move right to get to the other side of the crystals. Fall straight down from the right side of the swap block to reach a spring, off of which you'll bounce to the right and be able to grab another swap block. Jump to the left and dash up-right, then grab the swap block where it arrives up above the crystals. Quickly climb as high as possible, then jump right to aim to grab the left side of the other nearby swap block. You can then jump over it and wall jump off its right side to make it to a lower area, then dash straight left into the dash crystal and you'll be blocked by the swap block when it goes down, allowing you to grab it. After this, you can proceed to jump to the right and dash up-right, then straight up and climb up the last swap block in the room, quickly going right to avoid being brought up into crystals above.

This room is very tall and will have many sections to test your skills. First, you'll need to jump and dash left into the swap block, using the momentum to go far to the right and dash up-right into the purple orb. You'll be thrust between a retracting swap block and the right wall, so grab the right side of the swap block and jump over it to the left, then dash right to get a big boost left which allows you to dash up into the purple orb again. From where you arrive, jump into the red bubble and take it right, then dash down-right and up-right in quick succession to avoid crystals in the way and reach the purple orb. Grab the right wall for the next section, then jump left and dash up-left just into the dash crystal. Fall a bit, then dash straight left and straight up into the other dash crystal, then fall and dash straight left and straight up into the purple orb. Climb up the left wall or just dash straight up to get into the red bubble above. Take it straight right into the next red bubble, then take that one down-left into the next red bubble, then take that one straight right again to go directly to the purple orb. After being thrown up from the purple orb, dash straight up twice and make your way up to the last section. This contraption will require a different method of swap block momentum, and to access it you'll need to stand on the left edge and dash up-left, trying to then land on the swap block. Stand facing left, then when the swap block begins to retreat back right hit the dash button and then quickly jump left, and then you'll be flung fast to the left and crash into the left wall. Climb up from here and use your two dashes to reach the purple orb and and be taken to the next subchapter.

3000 M is the seventh and final subchapter of Chapter 7: The Summit in Celeste. The subchapter takes place on the summit of Celeste Mountain and contains a few very large rooms, separated by the newly introduced checkpoints. Most of the subchapter utilizes vertical wind which either pushes Madeline down or up, adjusting her gravity. The Crystal Heart of Chapter 7 can be obtained in this subchapter. At the end of the subchapter, Madeline will reach the peak of the mountain marked by a large red flag. Badeline will come out of her body to talk and realize she won't have her physical form after leaving the mountain, then they watch over the scenery and the chapter will end. After this, the game's credits will roll, and the player will be sent immediately to the Epilogue.

This subchapter will be quite difficult to get used to with the high gravity and low gravity coming from the vertical wind. At checkpoint 30 and 29 and 5-1, there will be no wind present. From checkpoints 28-20, the wind will blow downward and give a high gravity feel. From checkpoints 19-6, the wind will blow upward and give a low gravity feel. For most of the high gravity section, it will be quite simple involving getting around spikes and collecting dash crystals with usually some intermissions with disappearing platforms and/or springs. For the low gravity section, it will be much more open and generally a lot harder than the previous part. A few of the challenges will be very careful timing inbetween crystals as you move forward and fall or getting a lot of height with your dashes to get over crystals. At checkpoint 15, you need to stand right next to the crystals on the left, then do a jump and two diagonal up-right dashes to barely be able to grab the upper ledge. For checkpoint 14, it requires some careful climbing to be able to make it to the end with enough stamina to get to the top and jump over the crystal heap. Checkpoint 9 can be a nuisance as you need to do straight up dashes inbetween very small gaps in the layers of crystals while also needing to nudge yourself to the right without dashing diagonally. Checkpoints 4 and 3 will both make you use feathers to navigate through the crystals which might be tricky.

The Crystal Heart of this chapter is found in a room to the right of checkpoint 28. It will be inside a corridor guarded by crystals and all six jewels seen previously in the chapter will be slotted into the floor when collected. If all of the jewels are collected in a single run and the player makes it here, then the Crystal Heart will lower itself out of the crystals and become collectable.

There are 7 Strawberries found in this subchapter.

In the midst of checkpoint 26's platforming, this Strawberry can be seen floating under a platform. To get it, simply dash right into it and then straight up and touch the close-by dash crystal to continue onward and claim it.

At the end of checkpoint 24, a Strawberry is seen in a section to the left of where checkpoint 23 would be entered. From the disappearing platform below, jump to the left and dash leftward, then start to climb the wall. At the top of the wall, do a jump all the way to the right to get the Strawberry and get over the spikes, then do a dash to the right to land on the disappearing platform, then get to safety.

Near the start of checkpoint 21, this berry is seen above the normal path around some spikes. Bounce yourself off the spring and dash straight up to climb up the right side of the thin floating platform. Jump and dash into the Strawberry, then jump back left and jump over the floating platform and keep going left to make it back to the checkpoint and claim the berry.

To the left of checkpoint 18, a section with a lot of crystals and this Strawberry is found. There's a white cloud nearby, and to reach the berry, you'll need to do a full bounce up from this cloud and move left over the crystals. Using your two dashes, carefully time boosting yourself up and reaching the Strawberry while not touching the crystals. Afterward, fall into the dash crystal and make your way back to the cloud and you can safely claim the berry.

There's a Strawberry hovering to the bottom-right of checkpoint 16. It will be tricky but try to do a diagonal dash into the Strawberry after falling down from the bridge, then diagonally dash the other direction and wrap Madeline around the thin section of the wall to grab onto the left side and climb back up to safety.

To the left of checkpoint 15, beyond the tall wall of crystals, this berry is floating near the left wall. Do a full jump and then dash diagonally up-left over the crystals to make it to the Strawberry, then climb the wall and dash diagonally up-right back over the crystals.

This Strawberry is hovering above the main path of checkpoint 4, but it's recommended to make it to checkpoint 3 as a breather point before going for this berry. A feather will be needed to get to the area where this Strawberry is. If going for this berry while completing checkpoint 4, the feather utilized there can be brought upward to allow you to reach the small disappearing platform; if going for the berry after saving at checkpoint 3, the feather found right above can be brought down and to the left to give you access to the area. Jump up on the small disappearing platform and dash diagonally up-left over the block of crystals and grab the left side of the floating platform. From there, you can just jump to the disappearing platforms to the left and reach the Strawberry, then ride the feather below onward normally and you can claim the Strawberry when you land.

07 - The Summit (No More Running Mix)Final Room:07 - The Summit (8-Bit)

3000 M is the seventh and final subchapter of Chapter 7: The Summit B-Side in Celeste. The subchapter takes the player to the summit of the mountain to face off against vertical wind challenges separated by checkpoints. Wall bounces are introduced to the player near the end of the subchapter. The red Crystal Heart to complete the B-Side can be found in this subchapter.

The player will enter this subchapter into the downward blowing wind section (where the gravity is high) at checkpoint 20. This section lasts from checkpoints 20-15, and after reaching the purple orb at the end of checkpoint 15, the player will be taken to the next room which has the low gravity upward blowing wind section. This will go on from checkpoints 14-9, and then the player will be taken via purple orb to the next room with no wind. At checkpoint 8, the Bird will show the player how to do a wall bounce, which is a technique needed to complete most challenges remaining in this chapter. When reaching the end of checkpoint 1, a red flag is seen at the top of the mountain just like the end of the A-Side, but this is not the end as a secret area underneath the flag will reveal a purple orb to take the player to the cassette room where the Crystal Heart is.

Starting at checkpoint 20, you'll need to jump and dash up to grab the falling platform to the right to get higher, then jump off and dash up again and grab another falling platform on the left. Wait a bit for it to start falling, then jump to the left and grab the next one, then again for the next one, then you can reach checkpoint 19. Alternatively, just go left from the starting position and grab the wall, then jump up and dash straight up twice and you can reach checkpoint 19 in a far easier way.At checkpoint 19, you need to jump right and dash right to grab another falling platform. Climb it and jump right to grab another falling platform, then jump right to another one, then use your other dash to get up to the ledge and reach the next checkpoint. To make this easier if you're good at wavedashes, wavedash to the right (with adjusted timing for the high gravity) to reach the falling platform immediately, then grab it and jump up and use both of your dashes diagonally up-right to skip to the end of this area easily.At checkpoint 18, you'll need to dash up and climb a bit, then jump left and dash up again, then climb until you reach a dash crystal above. Jump into this dash crystal, then quickly dash straight left twice and you'll reach a disappearing platform. Position yourself to jump and dash straight up twice, then climb up a bit until you reach another dash crystal. You can then do two dashes to the right to land on another disappearing platform. Jump right and climb the right wall just after doing this, then you can dash twice straight up to reach the next checkpoint.At checkpoint 17, jump left and dash two times to the left carefully to land on a small disappearing platform. Jump a bit to the left after landing, then dash straight left to grab the wall and start climbing. Before climbing into the crystal above, jump right and dash straight up, then move right a bit so you land on another small disappearing platform. Jump off of this to the right, then dash straight right and straight up to reach the edge which you can climb to the next checkpoint.At checkpoint 16, dash straight up into the spring and be bounced left. Dash straight up then up-right into another spring, then after bouncing on this spring, dash straight up before crashing into the crystals, wait a bit, then dash left into the next spring. Dash up-right then straight right and grab the right wall, then climb up it to the next checkpoint.At checkpoint 15, climb up to the chain of springs and start bouncing with them. When the third spring tries to bounce you into some crystals, dash up-right before it does to continue the spring chain. After the last spring bounces you to the left, keep going left as you dash up-left then straight up to then touch the spring on the right and bounce yourself to the left. After being bounced twice, you'll need to pay attention to dash straight up through the gap in the crystals while bouncing, then up-right into another spring. After a few more bounces back and forth, a spring will try to bounce you into crystals on the right, but just dash straight up twice before this happens and a few more springs will await you. These will chain you into the purple orb, taking you to the next section.

Starting at checkpoint 14, the upward wind will kick in and low gravity physics will begin. Jump to the left, then fall for a bit before dashing straight left and straight up to reach a dash crystal. After this, dash straight up once, more to the right a bit, then dash straight up again and hit another dash crystal. Dash straight up from there, then up-right to go over the crystals and reach the ledge.At checkpoint 13, you'll need to do an infamously tight maneuver to get up. Jump slightly right and dash up-right to position yourself at the right side of the pink cloud. Hold down as you start moving a bit to the right for the big bounce you'll get, then immediately after passing the crystals start moving left in the air. Dash up-left from here, then straight up and move to the right to land on another pink cloud. Try be as far left on the pink cloud as possible before bouncing up while still moving left. If done right, you'll be past the crystals, and then you need to dash straight right twice and fall to the right and back left properly to be able to reach the spring below. Along with the other spring on the right, you'll need to use this spring's bounce to position yourself for a straight up, then up-right dash to reach the next checkpoint.At checkpoint 12, slide down the left wall to reach a spring below, which bounces you perfectly to be aligned in the crystal corridor for a straight right and straight up dash to reach another spring to bounce you further right. Move carefully here as you fall, then dash straight left and fall a bit before dashing straight right to reach another spring on the left. Bounce on this one and, just before hitting the wall of crystals, dash straight up and start moving right. Fall for a bit before dashing diagonally up-right to make it to the next checkpoint.At checkpoint 11, jump and dash up-right to land on the pink cloud, but don't bounce on it at all or you'll fling into crystals above. Instead walk off it quickly after landing, then dash straight right and straight up to land on another pink cloud. Walk left off of this one, then dash right and up again to land on another pink cloud, which you should walk off to the right before dashing right and up onto one more pink cloud. Do a big bounce on this pink cloud, then dash straight right twice to narrowly avoid the crystals below.At checkpoint 10, stamina is important so don't use any of it when you can. Do some wall jumps up the starting area until you jump left over some crystals. There's a small platform that you can wall jump off to the left, but you should grab it before doing this to make sure your position is right. Another platform must be jumped off in this way after going to the left, so repeat the process. After another jump left, dash straight up and do some more telegraphed wall jumps. Some small platforms within pillars of crystals to the right will be present, and you can just wall jump off each of them, but a grab to ensure your safety as well as reaching the top of the platform before the jump will be helpful. After the third one of these, you can dash straight up and climb to the open area above, then go to the left to reach the next checkpoint.At checkpoint 9, you'll need to perform many careful maneuvers with clouds while pillars of crystal are everywhere. Jump to the left and do two dashes to reach the first white cloud. Do a big bounce and move left to wrap yourself around the crystals, fall a bit, then dash straight left and straight up to reach a pink cloud. This will bounce you into crystals, so walk off it to the right quickly, then fall before dashing straight left and straight up again to reach another pink cloud. Bounce up on this one to get further to the left beyond the pillar of crystals, do a dash left at the midpoint of the fall, then fall more before doing an up-right dash to safely land on the next pink cloud. You'll need to bounce to the left quickly after, then you can do two dashes up-left to make it over more crystals. A platform can be seen on the right as you fall, and from here stamina will be important. Wall jump to the left to reach another platform, which you should grab and climb quickly before jumping over to the left and wall jumping off the left side of the same platform. You'll reach a wall to the left, which you should then fall straight down from before wall jumping to the left as soon as you can with the platform below. Climb up the platform to the left which you reach quickly, then wall jump to the right, left again, and grab the last platform and climb to the top of it. Jump to the left side of this platform and wall jump off of it to the left and you'll be able to reach the purple orb, taking you to the next section.

You'll arrive in this room next to checkpoint 8 and above will be the Bird giving instructions on how to do a wall bounce. Align yourself to the right of the platform above, then dash straight up twice and wall bounce to the right off of the platform to reach the ledge.At checkpoint 7, jump to the right and dash straight up to do a wall bounce to the right, then use this gained height to do another wall bounce on the next platform and you'll be able to get over the crystal blockade.At checkpoint 6, jump to the right and dash straight up, then straight left to hit a spring. Move to the right after this bounce and dash straight right, then prepare for a wall bounce after dashing straight up which enables you to get to the dash crystal to the right. Keep going right and do another straight right dash into a straight up dash for a wall bounce.At checkpoint 5, walk onto the disappearing platform and fall onto the spring below. Dash up-right into the first dash crystal, and from here you can follow the dash crystals by dashing straight up, up-left, straight up, up-right, straight up, up-left, straight up, and up-left again.At checkpoint 4, jump left and dash straight left, then straight up for a precise wall bounce off the tiny ledge, then climb up to the next checkpoint. An easier alternative if you know how to wavedash is to wavedash to the left, then dash straight up twice and climb from there.At checkpoint 3, some very tiny platforms will need to be wall bounced off of. Do a very tiny jump left and keep going left to align yourself for the first wall bounce, then climb up until Madeline's hand is just above the lighter colored parts of the wall. From there exactly, jump left and do the next wall bounce, then climb up to the ledge. If you know how to wavedash, a wavedash can be done from the start to skip the first wall bounce needed, just dash straight up before crashing into the crystals to the left.At checkpoint 2, you need to go left and dash straight left and straight up. A wall bounce isn't needed off of the platform you'll reach, so you can just grab it and climb to the top and jump left to reach the white cloud. Move to the left as you get a large bounce off this white cloud, then do a dash straight up then straight right to reach another white cloud. Go right after a small bounce off this cloud to then dash straight right and straight up onto another white cloud. Walk right off this cloud and fall until you need to to dash straight right twice and arrive at a pink cloud. Move left as you bounce up from this cloud, then dash straight up and up-right to reach another white cloud. Align the height of your small hops on this cloud to dash straight right and land on a pink cloud, which you should just let disappear so you can fall below and dash straight right, then straight up onto another pink cloud. When this pink cloud disappears, fall and dash straight right and straight up into the dash crystal, then fall and repeat the process again to reach one more pink cloud. Walk to the right off this pink cloud quickly and dash straight right and straight up to a white cloud. Get a big bounce up and move to the right, then fall and prepare yourself to dash straight right and straight up one last time for a final wall bounce, allowing you to climb up to the last checkpoint.At checkpoint 1, just scale the right wall with climbing and dashing straight up, then continue right while avoiding falling into the gaps with crystals below. With two dashes up-right twice, you can reach the big red flag at the end, then walk off to the right and walk back left to a secret area containing the purple orb, which will take you to the last room.

This will be the cassette block room of the chapter. Bounce up from the white cloud you spawn on top of and dash straight up twice to reach another white cloud. Wait bouncing until you can find a cycle where you can bounce up just as the blocks are about to turn to blue. Depending on your timing, you can either dash straight left or up-left to stall enough for the blocks to turn pink again before you have to dash straight left or up-left again onto another white cloud after falling. You can wait on this next white cloud until you see a cycle where you land just before the blocks turn to blue. Bounce high and dash either straight left or up-left, then straight up inbetween the blue cassette block and the crystals to the right to stall if needed. Quickly bounce up on the white cloud before the blocks turn blue or you'll be caught in the spikes at a bad time. Move left and dash straight up twice to pass a pink cassette block and land on the last white cloud. You can bounce on this cloud until you're comfortable bouncing up, which should be done at a time shortly before the blocks turn to pink. Bounce up, then wait if needed, then dash straight up twice and grab the pink cassette block on the left. Right after this, jump to the right and grab the blue cassette block that's opposing the pink block you were just grabbing. Jump straight up to grab the pink cassette block above as the blocks turn to pink, climb a bit more, then jump up again when the blocks turn blue and stand on the blue cassette block. Quickly jump to the left and dash straight up twice into the Crystal Heart to win the level.

500 M is the second subchapter of Chapter 7: The Summit in Celeste. The subchapter brings back the mechanics of Chapter 1 and utilizes them in new ways. In the final room of the subchapter, Madeline and Badeline will talk to each other while being boosted up from the last purple orb, then combine back together to enter the next subchapter.

Some of the rooms in this subchapter will use traffic light blocks for their main challenges, and some specifically test the player's knowledge of momentum with the traffic light blocks. Being flung across a room to dash into the next area where it's likely the player needs to be flung again by another traffic light block is a common occurrence in this subchapter. Making the most of both mid-air dashes Madeline has is also important to, for example, reach other traffic light blocks or stall out one currently moving back.

The sapphire piece of the Crystal Heart of this chapter is located in a room accessed by first taking the left exit out of the top of the third room of the subchapter and go right, just past the second Strawberry of the subchapter. In the next room you arrive in, a small hole can be seen in the floor which takes the player to the room containing this piece. The room will be filled with dash crystals and spikes, making the player do some precise dashes inbetween the spike gaps to eventually reach the sapphire piece at the bottom right.

There are 6 Strawberries found in this subchapter.

Found in the third room of the subchapter, this Strawberry hovers in the middle of the room to the left of your arrival point after using the first traffic light block. To get this berry, jump to the left of the ledge and dash once to the left and then dash up into the berry, then move left to grab the traffic light block. Fling yourself back to the ledge to safely collect the Strawberry.

Go to the top-left exit of the third room of the subchapter, reachable by dashing into the traffic light block below the previous Strawberry, waiting for it to go back to position, then jumping up and dashing left to the succeeding dash crystals. In the next room, the Strawberry is hovering right at the top and you just need to launch yourself up the traffic light blocks in the room to get up there.

To the left of the last Strawberry's location, a small bridge is seen on the left wall. Beyond it is a hidden passage to another room which has this berry. Walk off the bridge and dash left into the traffic light block. Ride it up and fling yourself upward, then dash to the left and reach the wall. Jump off the wall and grab onto the other traffic light block, then ride that one left and use that momentum to reach the left wall, which you can climb up to reach the Strawberry. 

From the fourth room of the subchapter, a right transition can be found. A Winged Strawberry will await you in the room that follows. To get this one, reach the pillar with the spring and jump over it into the spring. After you've bounced past the spikes above, dash straight up and then up-left directly into the Winged Strawberry and continue left to safely land.

Found in the eighth room of the subchapter, this Strawberry hovers near the end around some falling platforms. Play through the room normally until reaching where the berry is, then dash diagonally up-right to the pillar near it to get to the Strawberry after the falling platform moves out of the way. From there, complete the room normally.

Found in the ninth room of the subchapter, this berry is hiding beyond the purple orb at the end. Make your way to the area to the right just before the purple orb and dash upwards to find a gap in the pillars which reveals a Strawberry hidden off screen.

07 - The Summit (No More Running Mix)

500 M is the second subchapter of Chapter 7: The Summit B-Side in Celeste. The subchapter resembles Chapter 1 and uses that chapter's mechanics in new challenges. In the final room, after reaching the purple orb at the end, the player will be taken to the next subchapter.

In this subchapter, you'll be utilizing traffic light blocks a lot, and good knowledge of traffic light block momentum will be crucial. Being launched far with the combined momentum of a jump and the traffic light block's travel is necessary in this subchapter.

This room will have you on the left side mostly, doing specific dashes to get higher up using horizontal traffic light blocks. Jump and dash to the left and grab the first traffic light block and have it travel to the left, climbing up it a bit. Then, jump and dash straight up into the dash crystal above and grab the traffic light block above, which will take you right. After the traffic light block stops, jump to the right and dash diagonally up-left to grab another traffic light block above and ride it to the left. Jump up and dash straight up to collect another dash crystal and grab the traffic light block above and ride it to the right, letting go as it arrives to be flung far to the right onto a wall which you should then quickly climb up. At the highest point of climbing the wall, you can jump and dash straight up to grab the right side of the traffic light block above. Hold onto it as it passes the exit of the room, then jump and quickly dash straight up as it comes back to the right and you'll be able to enter the next room.

This room has some skull binoculars available to preview the room, if needed. For this room, precisely timing your dashes to squeeze between gaps of spikes will be most of what you'll do. Jump and dash up-left to land on the first traffic light block. Just before it goes halfway up its track, start jumping to the left, and the momentum you get vertically will allow you to line up with the spike gap above, which you should dash straight right through, then up-right to land on another traffic light block. If you mistime this process, there's easily enough spare time to stall yourself in the air with your two dashes by going straight up until the traffic light block reloads. At the next traffic light block, repeat this process exactly. On the third traffic light block, jump to the left at the right time like before, but then dash straight up and move to the right to grab a traffic light block on the right. Let go of this traffic light block just under halfway up its vertical travel and move to the left to reach an area above, in which you should grab the left wall. Jump to the right and dash straight up, then do a wall jump off of the right wall up above as far left as possible until reaching the wall to the left and slide down the thin corridor. Fall down and do a wall jump to the left to land on one last traffic light block. Jump as soon as it reaches the end of its track, then dash straight up two times to be able to reach the end of the room.

Jump off the starting ledge and dash up-right two times to reach a falling platform which you have to grab. Climb up this falling platform as it falls, and after it lands you can jump to the other side of it and hit the spring on the right, which will bounce you right into a platform to the right which you can grab. Climb as high as you can, then jump to the right over the platform, dash up-right precisely over the spike covered platform to the right, then dash straight up to hit a spring will which perfectly bounce you into the midpoint of the room. There will be some skull binoculars available to preview the rest of the room, if needed. Walk into the first spring and be bounced into the other spring, which will bounce you right. Dash up-right and grab the falling platform, holding onto it until shortly before it reaches the bottom by which point you should jump over it to the right and grab the left side of the small section protruding from the floor. Climb up this wall to the top, then jump to the right and dash straight up to hit another spring and be bounced to the right. Dash into and grab the first of the three consecutive falling platforms, then hold still. When it falls, jump straight up and move to the right, then grab the next falling platform, then again for the last one, then dash to the ending ledge. Alternatively, after bouncing on the spring, you can dash straight right under these three falling platforms, then straight up to jump off the right side of the last one and be at the ending ledge immediately.

Jump and dash into the purple orb, then grab the left side of the traffic light block above. Let go of the traffic light block shortly after it starts moving, then dash up-right and grab the wall, then jump off of it to the left and dash straight up and move to the right to land on top of the traffic light block. Walk to the right and jump to the right wall and climb up it. Jump and dash straight up, then up-left over the spikes to reach the purple orb again. After being launched up, grab the traffic light block to the left. Release the climb button when it reaches the end of its track to be boosted up a bit, then dash straight up and grab the tiny bit of wall on the right. In this next section, you'll need to do two sets of wall jumps left and right. After the second set, when you reach the left side, grab the wall and then jump up and to the left and do a jump to the right off of the bit of wall above. For the next bit you reach, you'll also need to grab it and jump up to the one above, but from there you can wall jump continuously until reaching the top of the section, and after your last wall jump you can dash straight up into the purple orb and be taken to the next subchapter.

Celeste's achievements can be collected through a variety of means. Here, every achievement will be listed, as well as a short explanation on how to obtain them.

There are certain achievements in the game that may not be obvious to get. Here, some of them will be explained, however it's recommended to try them on your own to avoid getting spoiled.

The player has to find one of the hidden Cassettes in the game. A full description of their placements can be seen in the Cassette Guide.

Awake is the third and final subchapter of Chapter 2: Old Site in Celeste. The subchapter has virtually no obstacles in your path. Theo can be encountered again in this subchapter. When you return to the payphone, Madeline will have a call with her mother, and then the chapter will be completed.

From the very start, you can just go right and not be met with anything dangerous. The rooms here are usually identical in shape to the ones seen before, just without any space blocks and with the dead end now opened. This subchapter is essentially a glorified cutscene and isn't meant to be any challenge to the player.

By exploring upward from the campfire at the start there are more rooms to discover. At the uppermost room, the Crystal Heart is on display but can't be collected. In this room as well is a dusty old book with a poem written on it which can be read.

There is 1 Strawberry found in this subchapter.

In the sixth room of the subchapter, the hole in the ceiling still exists and can be entered. Another room must be scaled and then is a room with the Winged Strawberry. Jump onto the left spring and then move right in the air and jump across the disappearing platforms to the other spring. Climb the right wall after bouncing on this spring and jump left on the other disappearing platforms. To reach the Winged Strawberry, you actually need to dash into it. Aim for slightly higher than where the berry hovers as it will start flying up when you dash.

From the game's official splash art

Part of You (to Madeline)Part of Me (by Madeline)Part of Madeline (as a generalization of these nicknames)Demon Doppelgänger (by Theo)Ms. Positivity (by Madeline)Madelevil (Old Name)[2]

Badeline (Used to be fanbase and internal name, referred to in-game as Part of You,  Officially named by her Steam Card) is the main antagonist later turned deuteragonist of Celeste who haunts Madeline from Chapter 2 onward, trying to stop her from climbing the mountain. 

"This is just what I look like, okay? Deal with it."

Badeline looks just like Madeline but has long purple hair, pale skin, and red eyes. She wears a purple jacket with black pants and boots. In Theo's eyes, she's a "goth version of Madeline". In game, she generally appears levitating in the air surrounded by a purple aura. In her official art she has no aura, but is still depicted levitating in the air. 

In Chapter 2, Badeline describes herself as Madeline's "pragmatic" side. Madeline states in Chapter 6 that she is paranoid, controlling, and cruel. Badeline is sarcastic and her anger is often provoked during the storyline before she and Madeline make amends. This is seen at the beginning of Chapter 6, when Madeline is nearing the top of the mountain.

Badeline seems to be the insecure part of Madeline, embodying, among other things, her fears: loneliness, inadequacy, failure, hopelessness, etc. She thinks in a more logical way rather than following her heart like Madeline is seen to do throughout the story. Badeline hates being incriminated, and this provokes her anger in the Mirror temple. She believes in dealing with her problems beforehand rather than making mistakes and sorting them out later. Badeline is a powerful magical entity, capable of breaking through multiple feet of hard rock when in an excited or depressed state.

In Chapter 2, she tries to stop Madeline from climbing the Mountain by attempting to talk "sense" into her and then physically chasing her down. She follows Madeline's exact movements from 3 seconds in the past, and any multiple instances of Badeline follow by another 3 seconds.

In Chapter 3, she provokes Mr Oshiro and gives him a bad impression of Madeline, resulting in the chase at the end of the chapter. Mr Oshiro ends up chasing Madeline until the last room in the chapter.

In Chapter 4, Badeline appears only in the end, where she stalls the gondola after Madeline gets anxious about the height. This initiates a panic attack and the famous "Feather Scene", where the player will have to slow down Madeline's heartbeat and calm her down.

In Chapter 5, she appears to Madeline in the Seeker section, where she explains to Madeline what the mirror temple does. She gives a detailed description over multiple cutscenes at the beginning of the chapter.

At the beginning of Chapter 6, Madeline calls her for a conversation and saying that she is better without her, arguing that both of sides would be happier, which makes Badeline afraid and angry feeling that Madeline was leaving her for dead on the mountain. Mocking Madeline's resolve, a purple appendage grabs Madeline from the air, making her struggle for breath. After Madeline attempts to use the feather trick taught to her by Theo, Badeline breaks the feather, rendering it useless, and pulls Madeline down to the bottom of Mt. Celeste, trying to break Madeline's resolve. However, Madeline slowly fights her way back and convinces a sullen and defeated Badeline to climb the Mountain together. After sorting things out and coming to an understanding, Badeline allows herself to fuse with Madeline. In this way, Madeline gains a second dash, and Badeline will now supply an additional at certain prompts. She becomes a cooperative helper and realizes the good in Madeline. Together, they climb up to the summit of Celeste Mountain in the 7th Chapter, where Madeline and Badeline have conversations about each other and the climb.

Notably, she makes no appearance in Chapter 8 (Except when prompted by a purple orb).

She makes a brief appearance in Chapter 7 Side B where upon touching the last purple orb, will express thrill and delight for how far she and Madeline has come. The outburst of emotions surprising even Madeline herself.

"You are not a mountain climber." (Chapter 2A-2) Madeline

"Let's go home together." (Chapter 2A-2) 

"You think you're above me!?" (Chapter 6A-1) 

"Take one more step and I'll make you regret it!" (Chapter 6A-3)

"Can I take partial credit for this?" (Epilogue)

Badeline as she appears on the b-side cover art.

Burning or Freezing is the third subchapter of Chapter 8: Core B-Side in Celeste. The subchapter increases the difficulty from the previous subchapter and has rooms where the player must change the temperature in the middle of platforming and adapt accordingly.

Ice ball and fire ball cycles are critical to pay attention to in many rooms of this subchapter. The player will need to make decisions from far away about what the pattern will look like at the point they reach a part of the room, as well as needing to be quite precise with dashes to make it by even with the right timing. Stalling on conveyor walls until the time is right is also utilized here a couple times.

This room is very small and can be tricky to do unless you watch the fire balls. Watch the first pair of fire balls as you stand on the left ledge, preparing to jump to the launching block. Jump onto the middle part of the launching block when the fire balls are at the bottom-left and top-right, launching yourself straight up. Dash straight right, fall down, then dash straight right again and grab the conveyor wall. If you just hold the grab button, you'll be brought up from the conveyor wall to the platform above, then you should climb up it following the fire ball. Wait until just before the fire ball coming from behind reaches you and jump to the right and grab the small platform on the right. Hold there until the fire ball below passes and then you can fall to grab the wall on the left. Now, while holding the grab button, watch the fire ball at the top right of the screen. When it's at the top-right of its pattern, jump to the right and ride the conveyor wall, then release to be boosted up to right by the fire ball. Wall jump to the left, then wall jump to the right to pass the fire ball and complete the room.

Walk off the ledge and land on the launching block a bit on the right side and boost yourself up, then line up a straight right dash through the gap in the crystals and you'll flip the hot/cold switch. Bounce on the newly transformed bumper below, then do another straight right dash through the next gap of crystals to the right which will flip another hot/cold switch. You'll then have to grab a launching block to your left at its middle, then you'll be perfectly launched to the right into another hot/cold switch and avoid the crystals above and below. Run to the right on the shattering block you arrive at and jump and climb the next shattering block to the right. Wall jump to the left and wall jump back right off the ice wall and grab the third shattering block and climb onto it. Run across this one and jump off at the edge to reach one more shattering block, which you can run across and then jump off to reach the end.

This room is filled with rising ice balls in a tricky arrangement of crystals. For the most consistency, exit and enter the room to get the first cycle which will align the following perfectly. After entering, run right and jump right to soft bounce on an ice ball, then shortly after dash diagonally up-right twice in quick succession. Keep holding right and hold down the jump button and you'll bounce off of two ice balls and then be caught at a slight dip in the ceiling. From here, fall down, then move slightly left when you pass the spikes to softly bounce on an ice ball and collect a dash crystal. Bounce up from the ice ball on the left you land on, then shortly after begin holding right and the jump button and you'll bounce on ice balls a couple more times. Dash diagonally up-right twice just when Madeline is just around the bottom-right of the heart in the background. After dashing twice, you'll be able to bounce directly upward on an ice ball, then bounce up on the next ice ball below while moving right to bounce on another ice ball and reach the key token needed to open the exit of the room. Move left after collecting the key token and stay in place as you fall and bounce on ice balls directly below you. Then, on the last ice ball below you before falling into the pit, bounce up and move to the right to bounce on another ice ball and keep moving right to reach a bumper. Land slightly on the right side of the bumper to bounce yourself over the crystals on the right. Bounce up on the ice balls to the right until you're low enough to bounce to the right into the dash crystal. Then, dash up-right and up-left into the bumper which will bounce you all the way to the end of the room if you just climb up the right wall.

Jump to the right and wall jump off the ice wall on the right, then dash straight up and up-right to flip the hot/cold switch. Ride the conveyor wall to your left and release at the top and hold right to make it to another conveyor wall. Grab this one and release at the top and move to the right, collecting the dash crystal, then grab the one on the right side. Release the grab button and move right at about halfway up the conveyor wall, then do a dash straight right, then fall and do another dash straight right to reach another platform with conveyor walls on both sides. Repeat the previous process, and at the end do a dash straight right and up-right accordingly to make it to another one of these. For this one, you only need to ride up the conveyor wall a little bit before letting go and moving right, doing a dash up-right, then soon after straight right, to reach one last platform. Ride the conveyor wall all the way up and you'll reach the ending ledge.

Tons of fire ball pairs spinning in circles will be all over this room. The strategies to get around them can vary depending on the style of play, but no matter what it's important to be cautious with your stamina. Jump to the first conveyor wall and ride up it when the pair of fire balls above are at their top and bottom points. Grab the right side of the platform you just rode up, then climb up and wait until you can jump right and grab another conveyor wall. On this next conveyor wall, stall by tapping and releasing the grab button until you can do a small jump over the platform to grab the right side of it, then jump to the right again above the fire balls below. Ride up the next conveyor wall, then use your two dashes carefully to make your way to the dash crystal on the right. Keep going right from there and try to aim a straight right dash to the last platform where there is no fire ball. Stall slightly until you can do a small jump over to reach the right side, then stall again if needed before riding up and moving right, using your other dash to make it to the end.

Jump to the right and do two dashes up-right to land on the dash crystal. These dashes can be timed at whatever point is needed in the cycle in order to not be hit by a fire ball. As soon as you reclaim your dashes, do another two dashes up-right to get to another dash crystal. From here, you can do a straight up dash into a straight right dash or wait to do a diagonal dash, then do one more dash to the right to get to another dash crystal. At this point, you should be able to do two diagonally up-right dashes and touch the hot/cold switch, and from there you should start bouncing on the ice balls to the right. Always be holding down the jump button in this section and try to make progress to the right whenever possible. Collect the next dash crystal, then continue to the three ice balls circling the hot/cold switch. Try to clear out all three of these before flipping the switch. Time a straight up and up-right dash to reach the next dash crystal, then repeat to make it to the hot/cold switch. An ice barrier will appear to your left when this happens and you'll need to quickly make it to an ice ball to bounce on it. Make sure you pay attention to where the fire balls are going to be at the point when you flip the hot/cold switch. Do some bounces with the jump button held down and you'll be able to reach the end of the room smoothly.

B-Side Cassette Tapes (or simply Cassettes for short) are collectible items, one of which can be found in each of the story chapters. Obtaining a chapter's Cassette is required in order to unlock the chapter's B-side level, which uses the mechanics of its respective chapter but is significantly harder. Cassettes are always obtainable in their own room after a gauntlet of Rhythm Blocks. The following page details how to obtain these Cassettes.

This chapter's Cassette room can be found in this chapter's third sub-chapter, "Chasm". If the player goes behind the Traffic Light Block in the sub-chapter's first room, then goes two rooms up, and then goes behind the next Conveyor-belt Platform, the Cassette room will become accessible.

This Cassette can be found in this chapter's first sub-chapter, "Start", but only after the mirror encounter with Badeline. The player must go down as soon as they enter the large room (the first one where the player has any agency over movement), and must then dash down through the Dream Block in the floor of said room, exposing the Cassette room.

This Cassette can be found in this chapter's third sub-chapter, "Elevator Shaft", just to the left of the chapter's singular Key (indicated by the opening through a broken wall with light shining out of it).

This chapter's Cassette can be found in this chapter's first sub-chapter, "Start". Just after finishing the room that requires the player to collect two Shields in order to move a Shield-Activated Platform, the player must bounce on the second White Cloud from the left, then dash up and left in order to access the top-left corner of the room. The player must then go as far left as possible, passing through the following room (which should contain a number of Springs and strawberry fragments in order to find this Cassette's room.

This Cassette can be found in this chapter's second sub-chapter, "Depths". After passing the third Temple Gate—the one just after a challenge involving a single Swap Block—the player should head down and to the left in order to find a Red Orb. Taking this orb to the right will lead to a platforming segment; completing this segment and pressing the Dash Switch there will open another Temple Gate to the bottom right of this room. Clearing this second room by depressing its Dash Switch will open yet another Temple Gate at the bottom right of this following room, leading to a third, more illuminated room. At the bottom right of this third room, the player can simply walk through a section of cracked wall (with or without completing any associated challenges) to access the Cassette room.

This Cassette can be found in the first room of this chapter's third sub-chapter, "Hollows". To access the Cassette room, the player must use the nearby Kevin Block to break the wall below it and send the Block to the bottom of the lake. The player must then quickly attack the Kevin Block again to make it break the wall to its left, exposing the entryway into the Cassette room.

This chapter's Cassette can be found in its fourth sub-chapter, "1500M". Upon entering this sub-chapter's fifth room, an opening can be seen leading out the top of the room. Entering this opening will lead to the cassette room.

This cassette lies at the end of the chapter and is required to complete it.

If you are looking for the in game location, Click here: Celeste Mountain

The game's logo, depicting Celeste Mountain

Celeste is a critically acclaimed platform game[1] created by Extremely OK Games.[2] The game was released on January 25, 2018, for Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, PC, Mac, and Linux.[3] The game follows a young woman[4] named Madeline as she climbs the somewhat magical Celeste Mountain, facing opposition from both the mountain's natural obstacles and from within herself.

Celeste's gameplay features fast and tight controls along a series of challenging platforming sublevels that make up a larger Chapter. It follows the simple to learn and hard to master controls that are a staple of its genre, and gameplay has often been compared to others, like Super Meat Boy.[5]

The Prologue introduces players to the basic controls, such as jumping and the ability to climb walls. The dash—one of the main movement options in the game—is gifted to the player at the end of the level, seemingly by the Bird. This dash is the core mechanic of Celeste's gameplay, giving the player a short burst forward in the direction that the player is holding. It can only be used a limited number of times, and must be refreshed before dashing again. The status of the player's available dashes is indicated by Madeline's hair colour. Refreshing the dash is done in a multitude of ways, but the main actions include touching the ground, collecting stamina crystals and screen transitions.

The sublevels, and by extension the game's Chapters, get progressively harder as more mechanics and obstacles are introduced, and the use of these elements merge and flow together the closer the player gets to the summit. Towards the endgame, Celeste introduces many more moves that use various combinations of the basic three moves (jumping, climbing, and dashing) in tandem; these techniques are explored in detail on the Moves page.

The original Celeste (now called Celeste Classic[2] and appearing as a mini-game in the full Celeste game[6]) was developed in Pico-8 by Noel Berry and Maddy Thorson for a game jam over the course of 4 days. This game had 30 segments, with a total of 18 collectable strawberries.[7] The game now referred to as Celeste was first playable at PAX West 2016,[2] and the game itself was released January 25, 2018.[3]

In December 2018, Thorson officially announced that Celeste would get a set of "farewell levels", which would be ready in early 2019.[8] In January 2019, Thorson stated the new levels would consist of a single chapter with no alternate sides or strawberries.[9] In April 2019, Thorson revealed that the chapter would be called Farewell, and would be a free DLC update on all platforms.[10] In May 2019, Berry added that the chapter has something to do with the Bird, but did not add further details.[11] The final chapter was finally released in an update on the 9th of September 2019. The Pico-8 game’s code can be found on Github.

Celeste garnered positive reception from multiple review studios. IGN, the game's first reviewer, gave the game a 10/10,[12] Polygon rated Celeste an 8/10,[13] and the current standing on Metacritic is averaged 91% across its platforms, with an average user score of 7.3/10.[14]

Celeste also was nominated for Game of the Year, next to God of War (the winner), Spider-Man, Red Dead Redemption 2, Assassin's Creed: Odyssey, and Monster Hunter World. Most notably though, this game has been received as though it was a love-letter to speedrunners. It became a common appearance at GDQ quite quickly, having 4 runs between 3 GDQs (two TAS, two human)[15]. On speedrun.com, this game often sits in the top ten most active speed games.[16] As of September 2019, Celeste had the most active players on all of Speedrun.com.[17]

Many people who have played this game have noted that it is a fantastic analogue for depression and anxiety. Jirard Khalil (host of the Completionist) stated, "It's not the first video game about mental health, [and it's] not the first to use a mountain as a metaphor for one's personal struggles, but that doesn't matter because Celeste just knocks it right out of the park. [...] Now obviously, no two people are going to have the exact same experience when it comes to mental illness, [...] but it absolutely nails the feeling of trying to take care of your own mental and emotional health."[18]

Celeste Classic is the original free version of Celeste, created in 2016. It was written for the Pico-8 virtual console. The game can be found on Pico-8's website and on itch.io. The original code for the game was written in a form of the Lua programming language tailored to the Pico-8, although the version of Celeste Classic found inside the full Celeste game is written in C#.

In the full version of Celeste, Celeste Classic can be unlocked by finding a hidden room in Celestial Resort Side A. 

The computer in Celeste that lets you play Celeste Classic.

After finding Celeste Classic for the first time, the game can be played from the Main Menu in the future.

Beating Celeste Classic can unlock the Real Gamer achievement on the Steam, Xbox and Playstation version of Celeste.

If playing with debug mode enabled, Celeste Classic can be loaded using the pico command. To access a certain level, the coordinates x and y can be used according to this chart on Google Drive.

It seems that the only map in Celeste Classic is Forsaken City even when reaching 500+ meters.  There isn't any plot in Celeste Classic since the game instantly starts you on the beginning of the mountain. But, there is a chest if you reach 2200 meters that gives you a green orb that if you collect, you earn double dashes.  It may be a representation of when Badeline fused with Madeline on chapter 6.

On the 2018 version's three year anniversary, Classic received a sequel titled Celeste Classic 2: Lani's Trek.

Celeste Classic 2: Lani's Trek is a game created by Maddy Thorson, Noel Berry, and Lena Raine in commemoration of Celeste's third anniversary. The game was released January 25th, 2021, and can be found and played on Pico-8's website.

Lani plays similarly to Madeline in the original Celeste Classic, however, instead of dashing, she uses a grappling hook. This grappling hook has finite range, and can grapple onto either tiles or special "grapple hook spots", and can also pick up items that can then be thrown or dropped on the ground. The grappling hook cannot grapple to 'icy' tiles, though.

Strawberries also act like in the 2018 version of Celeste, with them not being collected until after Lani hits the ground after touching one.

and if you want to play this game you can here

Granny and Theo's grandfather in front of Celeste Mountain.

Celeste Mountain is the main location where Celeste takes place.

Celeste Mountain is split into eight parts or chapters. These parts are as follows:

Celeste Mountain Possesses Magical Powers, You can see this in action when badline gets her body in chapter 2.

There is a real Mount Celeste located on Vancouver Island, British Columbia; however, it is unknown if the two locations are related.

This wiki's goal is to be a comprehensive database of all important information relating to the critically acclaimed game Celeste.

Hey everyone! Here are some things that need to be done, so if you can do any of them, that would be a great benefit to the community! :D The items are listed below.

Add all necessary information for:

Before editing this wiki, please take a minute to read these rules. They're fairly short.

The Objects page has a unique rule that applies only to it:

For the more extensive history and rationale, see Policy/Objects.

If you see someone violating one of the rules stated above on the Celeste Wiki, please let an admin know on their message wall. Alternatively, if the policy violation is one that you would not want to publicly report to everyone on the wiki, please go to this wiki's Discord server (accessible through this link) and send one of the admins on Discord a private message there. (Admins can be designated on Discord through their Admin role, viewable by clicking on a user on Discord and seeing what roles that user possesses.)

Users who violate the main rules will be warned that they are violating the rules and will eventually be banned if they cause enough trouble. Users who make small-scale violations will be warned four times before being banned (in chat, warned three times, then kicked once, then chat-banned). Users who make greater violations or violate the rules after being banned for rule violations will get fewer warnings before being kicked or banned. The duration of the ban will depend on the severity of the offense, and how many times that user has been banned before. (For example, trolls may get indefinitely blocked on their first block, while more good-faith policy violations will likely get a short ban, and anything in-between will adapt respectively.)

Violations that warrant four warnings include: good-faith Constructiveness violations (users harming the wiki when they mean to be helping), being mildly insulting (Civility violation), using moderate profanity (Safety violation), Neutrality violations, No Ownership violations, Copyright violations, and violations of the Objects policy. Violations that warrant fewer warnings include bad-faith Constructiveness violations (deliberate attempts to harm the site, also known as trolling or vandalism, these will receive only one warning), advertising (somewhere between good-faith and bad-faith Constructiveness violations, but still widely frowned upon, these will receive two warnings), harsher insults (three to one warnings, depending on the severity of the insults; no warnings will be given for certain threats), and harsh profanity (three warnings). How mild or harsh insults or profanity count as depends on the case in question, and cannot be easily explained here without violating the rules laid out on this page.

There, now you've read the rules. Enjoy the wiki!

We now have a Discord channel! If you're interested in communicating with the other members of the Discord channel in order to help improve the wiki or just have a good time, you can see the channel and connect to it in the nice box right underneath this text.

If you see this, your JavaScript might be disabled or DiscordIntegrator plugin isn't working. If the latter, please contact a wiki administrator.

Want your community included? See how!

03 - Celestial Resort (Good Karma Mix)

Celestial Resort C-Side is the C-Side of Chapter 3: Celestial Resort in Celeste. This C-Side tasks the player with dodging extremely fast moving sludges, using wall bounces, and bouncing on Mr. Oshiro's head in mid-air to complete its challenges.

This will be the first C-Side in which wall bounces, a technique learned in Chapter 7's B-Side, are required to progress. The first room has a few pairs of moving sludges going in straight vertical lines at incredibly fast rates. The second room gives the player a small area with sinking platforms that pass through the paths of moving sludges where wall bounces must be aligned. The final room has Mr. Oshiro chase the player while they make it through corridors of moving sludges and over bottomless pits, with the last jump requiring a bounce on his head as he passes by.

To complete this room consistently, stand at the edge and watch the moving sludges. When they're both at around the middle, do a jump to the right and dash diagonally up-right to make it past the first set of moving sludges. When you touch the dash crystal after falling a bit, do another up-right dash, and repeat this process three more times until you reach the right wall, then grab it. Watch the last set of moving sludges and jump to left as soon as the moving sludges start moving toward the other side and dash straight up to climb to the end.

Stand on the first sinking platform and hold down to make the sinking platform go down faster, but let go briefly such that you'll be out of range of the moving sludge. Jump in place so you don't descend into the dust bunnies below and watch the moving sludge to your right. When it's at the bottom, jump to the right and prepare to do a wall bounce to get up to the next sinking platform. Take this one down to the lower area as well and jump to the right when the moving sludge to the right is at the bottom as well to line up another wall bounce to make it to the end of the room.

This room has some skull binoculars available to preview the room, if needed. The first section of this room has a few pillars with moving sludges on them you need to make it through while Mr. Oshiro is back to chase you. Dash diagonally up-right to make it above the moving sludge on the right and climb up to get the dash crystal, then make it back down the right side of the pillar before Mr. Oshiro gets you. Do this again for the next pillars, then one more time. For the last pillar, jump off the right side of it and dash straight right into the gap in the wall to collect the dash crystal. If Mr. Oshiro is about to attack, grab the wall and move out of the way for him to pass. Otherwise, dash straight up into the next dash crystal, then straight right again to collect another, then fall a bit and dash straight right to collect one more. Dash diagonally up-right to make it to solid ground, then let Mr. Oshiro pass before preparing to do the next section. Jump over the first circling sludge to the right when the circling sludge is at its left-most point, then dash up-right while you're touching the dash crystal. Fall a bit as you keep moving right, then dash up-right into the other dash crystal, then dash straight right or up-right to make it to the next bit of ground, jumping quickly if needed to avoid Mr. Oshiro's attack. In the next section, you'll need to bounce on Mr. Oshiro's head to get enough height to make it to the key token. A reliable strategy is to jump to the right as soon as he starts to move, then dash downward or diagonally down-right to hit his head if your positioning was off. Do a large bounce up and dash up-right to collect the key token and grab the right side of the key-activated platform which will take you to the right. Jump to the right and move back to the left when Mr. Oshiro tries to attack you here. Then, climb to the top and wait for him to attack again, at which point you should do a small jump straight up so that you land on his head, regaining your dash in the process. Jump to the right and overlap yourself with the dash crystal to the right. When you're aligned, dash up-right twice and you'll collect the Crystal Heart and complete the level.

05 - Mirror Temple (Mirror Magic Mix)

Central Chamber is the second subchapter of Chapter 5: Mirror Temple B-Side in Celeste. The subchapter has many paths that the player can go to with a slight puzzle element to unlock the way up the chamber. A large mirror at the end of this subchapter will suck the player in when approached and spawn them back in the next subchapter after waking up.

This is the only part of the B-Side levels to have splitting paths. Fitting of Mirror Temple's theme, the player must explore around these paths to make it to some keys and dash switches throughout the subchapter which allow for more progression. The primary goal is to be able to ride a red bubble in the second room of the subchapter straight up to reach an area in the room above which is normally unreachable due to the walls being covered by spikes. However, this red bubble's path is blocked by a lock which must be opened with one of the keys, and a temple gate at the top area must be opened. To the left of the first room of the subchapter is a lock which can be opened to then ride a red bubble across the rooms to the right and reach a new room on the far right which eventually leads to a temple gate being opened. Opening this temple gate (as well as the lock in the middle of the second room of the subchapter) allow the player to take a different red bubble to the right and reach the part of the upper room which has the dash switch capable of opening the last temple gate.

In this room you can either go up or to the right or, with a key, to the left. Going up will reach the main hub of the subchapter, going right will lead to a path which leads to the right key, and going left gives access to a red bubble which lets you reach the far right room and thus unlock the lower temple gate.

This room will be a hub for most things in this subchapter. To the left is a room which gives access to the left key as well as a red bubble to eventually travel to the area which opens the upper temple gate. To the right is a room blocked by the first temple gate which can lead to the area with the upper temple gate. In this room is a lock in the center which blocks the path of both transportation red bubbles.

By going to the left of the second room of the subchapter, this room is reached. At the top-left is a red bubble which can be ridden to the right (if the lock and temple gate in the way are opened) to gain access to the upper temple gate. Lower in the room are four key tokens which need to be collected to open a temple gate. As soon as you drop into this area, you need to do a diagonally up-left dash to reach a key token hidden behind the middle swap block. If you don't do this, this key token may become unreachable without dying. Fall down into the dash crystal and dash up-left, then grab the left side of the middle swap block and ride it up to its starting position. Jump to the left to reach another dash crystal and grab the left side of the nearby swap block, then jump to the right side of it. Jump to the right and pass through the dash crystals to land on the lowest key token, then dash straight up to grab the right side of the middle swap block. Ride it up again, then jump to the right to grab the right side of the right swap block. Then, jump to the right into the last key token and you'll be able to go to the right and collect the left key.

With this key obtained, you can unlock either the lock in the center of the second room of the subchapter or the lock to the left of the first room of the subchapter. The former option doesn't unlock any more progression at that point, so it's recommended to do it second and unlock the left side room first.

By unlocking the lock to the left of the first room of the subchapter, a room is unlocked with many crystals and red bubbles. Ride the first red bubble left, then dash straight up into the next one, then ride that one left as well and dash straight down into the next, then repeat this again for another red bubble which must be dashed up into. After this red bubble is entered, ride it to the left briefly before dashing down-left into another red bubble. Aim it up-left into another red bubble, then that red bubble down-right, then the third red bubble straight left. Dash up-left out of this red bubble into the last red bubble, then this red bubble can be ridden right to pass back through the whole room, the first room of the subchapter, and most of the room to the right until you see the opening in the ceiling.

At that point, dash straight up and climb the wall to continue on. However, if you don't have the key to unlock this red bubble route, there is another way to reach this area. By going to the right of the first room of the subchapter, this long room with a lot of swap blocks is encountered. Jump off the left ledge and dash to the right just before landing on the spikes below, then grab onto the swap block for a bit. Eventually, let go and grab the right side of the swap block below when you fall to it, then jump to the right when it reaches the right side and touch the dash crystal, allowing you to dash up-right and grab the next swap block. Quickly jump to the right side of this swap block and wall jump to the right into another dash crystal. Dash up-right into the last swap block and repeat the process but grab the right side of the swap block and jump off of it when you can reach the upper area and enter the next room like before.

In the room above, there is a red bubble and three swap blocks lined up next to each other. Dash into the red bubble and ride it to the left, and before you hit the spikes on the right side of the swap block you should dash straight up and grab the dash crystal and the left side of the swap block above. Jump to the left, and dash straight to the right into the swap block and hit the jump button to get a huge boost to the left allowing you to land on a small floor over the spikes, then go to the left room from there to collect the right key.

After collecting both keys and unlocking both locks, you should next aim to unlock one of the temple gates and unlock more progression. By going to the left of the first room of the subchapter you can use the red bubble at the far left side to travel all the way to the right side of the long room to the right through a corridor of spikes to reach another room. 

In this room, you'll need to keep in mind how swap block momentum works. Stand on the first swap block facing right, then dash right and jump right to plop right into the swap block on the right, which you should grab. Let go when this swap block reaches the top to get a boost up, then dash straight right to bump into the incoming swap block and hit the jump button to be launched to the left. Grab the swap block you arrive at, then let go and jump up when this swap block reaches the top to be boosted up to allow you to climb through the upper transition.

There will be blades and red bubble across this next room, and timing entering each red bubble is very important. Stand at the ledge and jump to the left when the first blade is at either edge to ride the red bubble to the left. Jump over the platform you reach and ride the next red bubble up, dashing straight to the left through the gap in the spikes when you fall next to it. Fall down into the next red bubble and take it to the left, dashing straight up shortly after and climb up the bit of the wall on the right. Jump to the left into the next red bubble when the blades to the left are both in the middle of their cycles. Before you hit the spikes, dash either up or down and fall into the red bubble below. Take this red bubble up, then fall down again and dash to the left through the gap in the spikes and fall into another red bubble. Ride this red bubble straight up, then there will be a blade to the left and to below to the left. With proper timing, you should dash in the lower section of the first blade's cycle and move to the left side of the second blade's cycle, but if your timing is off this can be adjusted to dash at different sides of the blades. To the left is a dash switch which can be pressed to open the lower temple gate. A skip can be done utilizing the game's strange momentum to boost yourself to the right with specific dashes on top of the dash switch and be launched over the spike floor above. This is only really needed in speedruns and shouldn't be done otherwise.

Go back to the second room of the subchapter and then to the room to the left again, then you'll be able to use the red bubble in this room to go to the right and over the spike gap to the right and reach another red bubble, which can be taken straight up into another room which opens the upper temple gate.

A setup of crystals can be seen in this room which allows you to dash up-left and land right on the swap block which arrives with a spring on top. Grab the left side of this swap block and hold on as it moves back to the left. When you pass the area where the crystals above open up, jump up and dash straight down onto the spring to bounce up and dash again to the left to get to safety. Then dash switch seen to the left opens up the upper temple gate which means you can ride the red bubble from below up and go to the top transition of this room to move on.

This room has some skull binoculars available to preview the room, if needed. There are five distinct sections of this room and it is very vertically large. Go to the right in the first red bubble past the first two blades and grab the right wall. Safely climb down past the blade below and jump into the red bubble when the blade is in the middle of its cycle, taking it straight up. There are three blades moving fast in the area above, with disappearing platforms usable inbetween. You can usually dash safely straight to the left underneath each blade whenever they start moving up, but if you're slow then you can also dash over the blade as it goes down. When you reach the red bubble on the level, take it up and fall down a bit before dashing up-right and grabbing the swap block as it arrives. You should naturally avoid the blades as you move to the right, you just need to hold yourself in a spot that doesn't take you into the crystals in the middle. Climb up a bit and then you can jump into the red bubble above, which should be ridden straight up to reach another red bubble. This next red bubble should be taken up-left, then you can fall a bit to the left before grabbing the right wall. Jump to the left and dash past the blade either above or below depending on your timing and you can reach another red bubble to go straight up. In the area above are two red bubbles on the same horizontal level and a small gap above in the middle. Carefully time dashing straight up into this gap and you'll arrive at a large mirror. Hit both dash switches to activate this mirror and stand close to it to be sucked into it and finish the subchapter.

02 - First Steps Final Room:02 - First Steps (Piano Only)Cassette Room: 01 - Forsaken City (8-Bit) 

Chasm is the third and final subchapter of Chapter 1: Forsaken City in Celeste. The subchapter tests your knowledge of platform momentum, specifically with traffic light blocks. The Cassette to unlock Chapter 1's B-Side can be obtained in this subchapter. The only story moment found in this subchapter is at the end when Madeline rests at the campfire and notes that this may have been a bad idea.

Knowing how to properly time the momentum gained when getting shot by traffic light blocks is pivotal to surviving some rooms here. A couple rooms appear rather complex but can be easily overcome with the knowledge on how to dash at the right time. Most rooms here are either over floors filled with spikes or without much ground.

The Cassette room can be found by following the same route to get the second Strawberry in the subchapter. Hidden behind the traffic light block is the Cassette room, so to get in you have to grab the traffic light block to activate it and fall down, then quickly dash up to get behind it.

Some of the hardest rooms in doing this chapter dashless can be found in this subchapter. The second room of the subchapter may be the greatest challenge to anyone attempting this; it has multiple sections each with very tricky platforming required which may take hours. First you must grab ledges barely above spikes to reach the right wall. You might need to do neutral jumps to finish the ascent (more on that later). After reaching the bridge, the next section is extremely precise as it requires you to do a spike jump without the ability to climb and line it up. Unless you've done this many times, it's seemingly a blind luck jump where you jump right at the corner of where the spikes meet. After that you should try to line up a grab with the right side of the lower dip in the floor, jump to the other side, and climb up to finish the room. The fourth room of the subchapter also requires precise grabs of walls elevated above spikes, but it's notably simpler than the second room. In the fifth room, you must use neutral jumps to get through and claim the Winged Golden Strawberry. When hitting the jump button, make sure you don't hold any direction and you can get higher than you would otherwise. Launch yourself with the first traffic light block, reach the right wall and keep neutral jumping until you can wrap around the second traffic light block and grab it to then finish the simple ending of the room.

There are 5 Strawberries found in this subchapter (not including the Winged Golden Strawberry which spawns in the final room).

In the first room of the subchapter, go the top-left transition by grabbing the traffic light block and dashing above it. In the next room, go to the left and in the following room you can dash into the spring and then dash straight up for safety, then continue left. To grab the Strawberry in the room after, you just need to walk off the platform and dash up immediately after grabbing the berry and climbing back up the wall.

Follow the same path as for the previous berry but go up from the first room instead of left. Dash up into the traffic light block and launch yourself into the Strawberry.

Found in the first room of the subchapter, you need to fall off of the right bridge and move right to then dash straight up, allowing you to reach the Strawberry.

Found to the right of the first room of the subchapter is another Winged Strawberry. Ride the traffic light block and jump off it once it reaches its furthest point to either land on the disappearing platform or grab the right wall. You can just go left after reaching the platform and bounce off the spring and into reach of the Winged Strawberry.

In the fourth room of the subchapter, you can find a transition in the top-left by going through the wall behind a falling platform. In the room with the Strawberry, dash into the dash crystal above you and continue dashing into the other dash crystals all around the platform, grabbing the berry on the left and then continuing back right.

Cheat Mode is a hidden feature in Celeste that can unlock every chapter in the game, and other features such as Golden Strawberries, B-Sides and C-Sides, as well as opening the Heart Gates without the need of any Crystal Hearts. Saves with this mode enabled will have a small green stamp with the "cheat mode" text on it. This mode also doesn't change the player's berry or heart counts. It also unlocks variant mode for all saves.

Cheat Mode can be enabled in two ways, with or without Debug Mode. The first way is to unlock it from the Prologue chapter. In order to make it work, the player has to go to the left in Prologue chapter, where the intro car can be found and perform a combination of inputs shown below:

Left, Right, Journal, Grab, Up, Up, Down, Left, Grab, Confirm

Note: before using, reset all keybinds to default.

In order to make this command work, the player has to perform the combination in the intro car room. If they by any means go outside the room by accident or not, the mode won't be activated.

If the player has modified their savefile and have Debug Mode enabled, a command console can be enabled with the "." or "~" keys. Cheat Mode can be enabled that way by simply typing "cheat" in the console. After that it can be closed by typing the "q" command, and Cheat Mode should be unlocked afterwards.

Cheat Mode unlocks every chapter and their alternate sides, as well as giving the player access to everything without the need to unlock anything. This mode is very useful for speedrunners or players who need to practice a specific chapter on a separate save file. Cheat Mode also allows players to run miscalleanous categories such as All B/C-Sides, All Hearts, etc. without the need of unlocking everything beforehand.

09 - Golden  Ending Cutscene:  10 - Anxiety

Cliff Face is the fourth and final subchapter of Chapter 4: Golden Ridge in Celeste. The subchapter pits the player against many harsh wind rooms in which moving right without dashing is almost entirely stopped. Snowballs are introduced in this subchapter. At the end of the subchapter, Theo meets up with Madeline and they attempt to ride together on a gondola over the chasm before being stalled by Badeline. The player will then go through a mini-game where they must hold a feather within a moving box on screen through button inputs to blow it upward and let it fall at the right time as a reference to a real-world breathing method.

In most rooms in this subchapter, wind will be blowing to the left so strong that it's nearly impossible to move right without the use of dashes. Quite a few rooms will utilize this to require good dash timing while Madeline falls to precisely make it to the next platform. Introduced in the fourth room of the subchapter are snowballs which are tossed from the right side of the screen and come at Madeline in a straight line. They can be bounced on and function like Mr. Oshiro's charge attack from the last subchapter of Chapter 3, but from right to left instead of left to right.

The third room of the subchapter can be quite confusing to the player. There are a few ways to beat it but the safest method is to patiently run to the right and dash to land on top of the triggered platform, then dash again. Land on the pink cloud, and when you bounce back up after claiming the key token, dash straight right into the green bubble, then aim it right and dash right again if needed. Make sure to be holding down the climb button and you should safely be taken to the right, where you can just take the green bubble right and finish the room. The ninth room may be tricky, but the best strategy is just to be patient and land on the clouds always to make sure you don't waste your dash and die. Be sure to go straight up the last green bubble in this room to avoid the crystal spikes. The tenth room of the subchapter, the one just before the ending cutscene's room, will reverse the wind and have it blowing harshly to the right. It will be pretty simple to jump across the room with the wind, the main challenge is ensuring you get past crystal spikes and always dash properly into green bubbles.

There are 5 Strawberries found in this subchapter.

There is a smashable wall found on the left of the first room of the subchapter. By going to the ledge opened up by breaking this smashable wall, you can get up to a hidden area in the ceiling by dashing straight up. The room accessed through this area will be a large one and very tricky to figure out. Start by jumping over the guided platform and grab onto the left side of it, then start steering it to the left as it rises. When you get to the top, you can jump and dash to the left and reach the green bubble. Direct the green bubble left, the dash straight up. Grab the right side of the next guided platform and move it left to take it to the top of the next area. When you reach the top, jump to the other side of the next guided platform and grab on, then direct this guided platform to the right as it rises. Jump and dash to make it to the next green bubble, direct it right, and ride up the triggered platform. When you can, let go and dash to the right to finally reach the Strawberry.

Found in the second room of the subchapter, this Strawberry is underneath a disappearing platform. Advance to the third disappearing platform and fall down when it disappears to touch the berry, then dash up-left to get back to safety.

Found in the fifth room of the subchapter, this berry is hovering over crystal spikes around the end of the room. Using the green bubble nearby, launch yourself up and then dash directly left to grab the Strawberry and arrive at an earlier platform. You can claim the berry and continue the room like normal.

Found in the eighth room of the subchapter, you can find this Strawberry inside a secret area access by directing the second green bubble upward.

Found in the tenth room of the subchapter, this Strawberry is located near the end by some green bubbles. Take the second to last green bubble directly to the right and reach the berry, then immediately dash straight upward into the other green bubble, then take it to the end of the room like normal.

Celeste features a variety of collectibles that are scattered around its chapters. Many of them serve different purposes and some of them can only be found in specific places, adding for an extra challenge for players who are willing to conquer it.

Strawberries are basic collectibles that can be found in every chapter and they appear in several different types. They don't serve any sort of purpose apart from giving the player an extra challenge and to fill up stats. Collecting 175 strawberries however, unlocks the "Impress Your Friends" achievement. The amount of collected Strawberries also affect which ending the player will get in Epilogue.

Red Strawberries are the most common berry in the game. They appear in every A-Side, with the exception of Chapter 6: Reflection, and the DLC chapter, Farewell. They appear in many rooms, including hidden areas that normally aren't required to progress. Upon collecting, it follows the player unless they remain on safe ground for a small amount of time. It is possible to stop berries from collecting, which can allow the player to start a chain of strawberries. When collecting strawberries, they will give a score of 1000. Collecting multiple strawberries at once will increase the score to 2000, then 3000, then 4000, then 5000, before then giving a 1UP. Getting a 1UP will unlock its corresponding achievement, but this scoring has no other effects.

Strawberry Seeds are small yellow-green collectibles that are scattered around a single room. Collected seeds respawn once the player touches the ground.  Collecting all seeds in a room without touching the ground causes the seeds to combine into a Red Strawberry. If the player dies after unlocking the berry, it will remain.

 Winged Strawberries are an uncommon type of Red Strawberries that fly away after a dash is used. Winged Strawberries will respawn if the player retries the room. Winged Strawberries lose their wings if the player touches/collects them.  Most of the time, these strawberries are obtainable only by completing the room without dashing, but some require a dash to grab them before they fly away.

Golden Strawberries are special collectibles that can be unlocked when the player has completed Core B-Side. They appear only in chapters that have been completed before, and in order to collect them, the player has to take them to the end of the level in without dying once. Every chapter has one Golden Strawberry, and they're considered one of the biggest challenges in the entire game. Golden Strawberries can only be collected if the player grabs the Crystal Heart in B-Sides and C-Sides, or if they get to a room that triggers its collection in the A-Sides. If the player dies while carrying a Golden Strawberry, they will be taken back to the place where the berry normally appears. 

 The Winged Golden Strawberry is a hidden secret that can only be found at the end of Chapter 1A if the player has completed the entire chapter without dashing even once. If the player enters a screen transition after using a dash to complete a room, the berry will disappear (this can be avoided by dying after accidentally using a dash). Completing the chapter without dashing takes advantage of obscure techniques such as spike jumping, neutral jumping, etc. (more explained in Moves). Unlike other Golden Strawberries, the player isn't required to complete everything without dying.

 Crystal Hearts are collectibles that can be found in every chapter. They appear in different colors which resemble the Alternate Side the player has played. There are 24 total Crystal Hearts, and a gray fake Crystal Heart that can be found right before the Event Horizon sub-chapter of Farewell. Red and Golden Crystal Hearts appear at the end of their corresponding B-Sides and C-Sides, while Blue Crystal Hearts are hidden and require the player to solve a puzzle or find a secret area (with the exception being Chapter 8: Core). Colors vary depending on the type of chapter you're playing:

Crystal Hearts are required in order to unlock certain areas in the game. Their amount is different depending on the area a player is trying to unlock, regardless of the color of them:

 Cassettes are collectibles that can be found in every A-Side in the game, with the exception being Chapter 9. Cassettes appear in rooms that are built around colored Rhythm Blocks that the player has to time to the music in order to progress. Collecting them unlocks the B-Side, which is a more difficult version of the regular chapter. Although Cassettes are optional collectibles, finding them is required in order to gain every Crystal Heart in the game.

Upon collecting a Cassette, a preview of the B-Side music is played, and after pressing a key, the player is transported to the spawn point of the room.

02 - Old Site (Black Moonrise Mix)

Combination Lock is the second subchapter of Chapter 2: Old Site B-Side in Celeste. The subchapter marks the return of the Badeline chase sequence in which she copies the player's inputs to follow behind them.

This subchapter will have Badeline chasing the player like in the A-Side's Intervention subchapter. However, this subchapter is much shorter and, despite being five rooms long, only has four rooms where Badeline is present. Additionally, only one room here will have multiple Badelines chasing at once. Similar to the A-Side's chase sequence, a few of the rooms here will have key tokens to collect all around in order to complete the room.

There will be three key tokens in this room in three separate corridors. For the closest one, wall jump back and forth across the un-spiked walls up to the key token and wait at the top, holding onto the wall until Badeline jumps to the other side which allows you to fall back down. For the middle one, just dash up the space block to get the key token and hold left so you avoid the spikes. Then, after Badeline comes through as well, dash through the space block diagonally down-right, then straight left, then straight right to get back to the bottom. For the furthest one, wall jump off the right bit of the wall and then do a straight up dash to then climb the ledge. Collect the key token, then go back right and fall down the right side to avoid Badeline. After collecting all three key tokens, the key-activated platform will be moved, and you can jump up the corridor on the right.

In this room, there's a long space block floating above a bottomless pit and the exit of the room is to the left of it. You'll need to dash through it to the left, and to get to its right side you first need to jump off the ledge and dash straight up into the space block. After you pop out, do a dash to the right through the other space block and then dash diagonally down-right through the gap. Quickly dash diagonally up-right to collect the dash crystal, then dash straight up. Dash straight to the right and stray far to the right before returning back to collect the dash crystal below. Climb up and then dash left through the space block (not too low, or you'll hit the ledge on the left), and you can make it to the end of the room.

This room will not have Badeline chasing you, so you can play it slowly. Space block jump from the space block at the start, then dash straight up before crashing into the spikes and grab the wall on the right. Then, jump to the left over the spikes and dash to the left when you fall past the spikes on the left to then grab the wall. Jump up the left corridor until you reach the dash crystal, then dash through the space block above and do another dash to the right afterward to reach the end.

Badeline will be back chasing you, now with two extra clones as well. In this room there will be a large space block with openings around every side with key tokens. Start by dashing straight up through the left end of the space block, then walk a bit to the right to collect the key token and then dash straight down into the bottom gap. Keep walking right to get the next key token and dash straight up for another one. Wait for the Badelines to follow you up, then you can go right, fall down, and dash straight left to reach another key token. Lower yourself down this left wall and dash straight right just above the spikes to reach the final key token, then do a diagonal up-left dash and then don't move. After Badeline and her clones pass, dash diagonally down-right to easily make it into the gap and finish the room.

Dash through the first space block and start climbing up the right wall. When you reach a point where you're able to, jump onto the spring and move right to get a key token, then jump back to the left and bounce on the spring to the left to get the other key token. After this, you can space block jump out of the right side and dash straight up into the following two space block to then fall onto the last key token. At this point, dash straight left and grab onto the key-activated platform and let it bring you to the left where you can jump up the corridor and finish the room.

01 - Forsaken City (Sever the Skyline Mix)

Contraption is the second subchapter of Chapter 1: Forsaken City B-Side in Celeste. The subchapter continues with mostly the main mechanics seen before, with the first room of the subchapter being extra tricky.

This subchapter's type of challenges will be largely similar to the kinds seen in the last subchapter, albeit slightly tougher. The first room is the namesake of the subchapter, being a contraption, which is set up to be fairly tricky to figure out the solution to. Some rooms of the subchapter have a focus on traffic light block momentum and others focus on maintaining a dash at the right time to get through the room.

This will be the actual contraption room, having a mount of spikes with a traffic light block underneath it rigged with a spring. This will be the toughest room in the chapter for most as there's no obvious solution to the tricky setup. What must be done is you need to dash over the traffic light block all the way to the wall and wait for the spring to move to you. Hit the jump button at the height of your spring bounce and then quickly dash straight to the right and nudge yourself a bit more to the right. Land on the traffic light block at the right and duck down so you can be moved to the left under the platform. When you arrive in the middle, wall jump up the corridor and use your dash diagonally up-right to get above the spikes up above and finish the room.

In this room, you just need to grab the left side of the first traffic light block and release the button right as it reaches the end of its zipline. Fall down the corridor, avoiding spikes, and dash right to grab onto the other traffic light block and get to the end of the room.

This room will be fairly self-explanatory, just do a dash up to the wall above and do a wall jump off of it, then fall into each dash crystal and dash upward or up-right when needed to get to the next dash crystal and get to the end.

This room forces you to go through most of it without ever having a dash, as you need to collect a single dash crystal to be able to finish the room. You need to dash up to then wall jump off of the falling platform, then in the spiked corridors to the right you keep doing wall jumps to get by. Stamina can be tight here, so don't use your climb too much until the end. Wall jump all the way until you collect the dash crystal, then start wall jumping back where you came and go down to the bottom area and use the dash you have to get across the long line of spikes. If you know how to do a spike jump (like seen in the Winged Golden Strawberry strategy) then this room can be partially cheesed. A spike jump and then wrapping around the falling platform can allow you to get up top without a dash needed, allowing you to complete the room without needing to trek to the dash crystal.

Stand on top of the first traffic light block, then jump to the right as soon as it stops to reach the next traffic light block. Grab onto this block and use the momentum from its boost up to carefully get up and around the two floating platforms with spikes on them. Do a diagonal up-left dash to reach the right side of the last traffic light block and grab onto it. Boost yourself up with its momentum and move to the left side of it. Grab onto the left side, and use that momentum to weave to the left and wall jump up the corridor.

Core C-Side is the C-Side of Chapter 8: Core in Celeste. This C-Side introduces the player to hyperdashes and brings back the mechanics of many other chapters in its final room. Progression is locked until the player opens a gate by having all 23 other Crystal Hearts in the game.

To make it past the gate in the first room, the player must have every Crystal Heart, meaning that all other C-Sides must be completed before this one. The first room blocks the player's progress, but only serves as a check. The second room has the Bird show the player how to do hyperdashes, followed by the player doing multiple in a row. The third room requires some careful movement with launching blocks to get around crystals. The final room is a humongous horizontal stretch with ice/magma corridors persisting throughout, featuring objects from other chapters along the way as well as one last hyperdash test.

Get over the large gap in the room with some dashes and the heart gate will open for you as long as you have the necessary Crystal Hearts, then you can advance to the next room.

Starting from here, Core's change in dashing will be in place. To the right is a thin corridor with crystals on the top and bottom with a few disappearing platforms scattered inbetween. The Bird above will tell the player the inputs for a hyperdash, which will be needed to make it across this area. Hold down the down and right button, then press jump and dash at the same time to hyperdash, then repeat this three more times across each disappearing platform and you'll make it to the end of the room.

This room has some skull binoculars available to preview the room, if needed. Jump to the launching block and launch up and move right to fall down between the crystals on both sides. Eventually, dash up-right and then straight up and grab the next launching block to be shot to the right. Hold left if needed to avoid the crystals to the right, then you'll fall to another launching block which you can take up and hold right with. Move right until you need to go back left and grab the launching block's right side. Try to grab it at around the middle portion, then release and get launched to the right into a dash crystal which you should use to dash up-right once, then fall a bit, then up-right again. You'll flip the hot/cold switch and turn the hot bumper below into a safe normal bumper which you can bounce up on. Then, fall a bit to the right such that you can move left into the bumper's right side and be bounced far to the right. Then, dash up-left into the next bumper to be bounced right again, then dash up-left again into the last one to bounced into the hot/cold switch and the end of the room.

This room has some skull binoculars available to preview the room, if needed. This final room will be a very long one with tons of sections to master. Begin by jumping onto the traffic light block and riding it to the right, then jump right as it reaches the right side to use its momentum to get launched right. Dash up-right and then straight right to hit a hot/cold switch and land on a falling platform. Jump right to another falling platform and once more to another one, then jump right again to then grab and climb up a falling platform on the right. Keep jumping right to flip the next hot/cold switch and land on a falling platform below. Jump right again to collect a dash crystal, then dash up-right and dash up-right again shortly after to dash through the space block directly into another dash crystal, then fall a bit and dash straight right twice through the next two space blocks to make it to another falling platform. Jump right onto another falling platform, then jump right off of this one to aim for the right side of a bumper below which can bounce you to the right. You'll reach another dash crystal after bouncing on a bumper, then you can dash onto the first pink cloud. Jump right off of all of the four pink clouds going to the right until you land on a swap block. Dash straight right and jump to get a lot of momentum and reach a hot/cold switch and another falling platform. Jump to the right and grab another falling platform, then hold on for a bit to let the magma corridor above you rise up. Jump to the left and grab that falling platform for a bit, then jump right again to climb and jump to the last falling platform when possible. Jump to the right to claim another dash crystal, then dash up-right and you'll be able to land on an angry platform. Quickly run right and dash straight left into the angry platform and hot/cold switch and grab the angry platform to be taken far to the right. When the angry platform crashes into the wall above, let go and hold right to be launched far to the right into another hot/cold switch and a falling platform you must grab and climb up. Quickly jump to the next falling platform, climb up it and jump to the third one, then quickly jump over it to the right to then fall into a spring on the falling platform to the right. After being bounced right, you'll flip a hot/cold switch and then need to bounce on another spring on the right side of another falling platform. Be careful, because the hot/cold switch will freeze the game state very briefly which can mess up your timing. After bouncing on this spring, there's one more spring to aim for, then after this bounce you'll reach a dash crystal. Dash straight up to flip the hot/cold switch, then fall a bit and dash straight right to reach another dash crystal. You'll then be in an area with crystals from the top and bottom of the scream with small gaps to get through and dash crystals to keep you airborne. To get forward safely, dash straight up after collecting the dash crystal, then dash straight right to collect another one. Dash straight up and straight right again into another dash crystal. Dash straight up to flip the hot/cold switch, then fall until you can dash straight right into another dash crystal. Dash straight up from here to flip another hot/cold switch, then fall and dash straight right again for one more dash crystal. After collecting this dash crystal, dash straight up and up-right, then aim for the right side of the nearby launching block and launch yourself to the right. You'll reach another dash crystal which you should use to dash straight right and then up-right to flip a hot/cold switch and proceed to land on the shattering block which appears. Jump to the right and grab the right side of the shattering block to the right, then jump right after climbing up and grab the right side of the next shattering block. Climb up and jump to the right to climb the falling platform to the right, wait a bit, and jump over it to flip the hot/cold switch. Fall down to the launching block below and use it to get to the ledge to the right. You'll be able to collect a dash crystal, then as you continue right you can flip the hot/cold switch one last time and meet the bird again. The final corridor will make you do two hyperdashes in a row, then you'll reach a dash crystal which you can dash up-right with twice to reach the Crystal Heart and complete the level.

02 - First Steps Crystal Heart Room:02 - First Steps (Piano Only) 

Crossing is the second subchapter of Chapter 1: Forsaken City in Celeste. The subchapter introduces some new mechanics such as falling platforms and dash crystals. The Crystal Heart of Chapter 1 can be obtained in this subchapter. There are no story moments found in this subchapter, but Theo can be encountered for the first time here.

The platforming here is less rudimentary than in Start with the addition of new mechanics to test the player's reaction time. Touching a dash crystal gives Madeline back her dash if she doesn't have it and many rooms are nearly impossible without utilizing them. Traffic light blocks working against the player is also explored here.

The Crystal Heart of this chapter is accessed in the same room as one of the berries- the one in front of a flashing screen. The player is tasked with dashing in the direction each colored bird dictates when they do their telegraph in the order of the colors flashing on the screen. The order is: white, purple, blue, red, purple again, and yellow. This means your dash order must go: up, left, down-right, up-right, left, and up-left.

Many more rooms here become substantially more difficult when trying to beat the chapter without dashing than in Start. The first room is similar to the second room in the previous subchapter, and to beat it dashless you must get a running start off the platform and spike jump to barely graze past the spikes, then you do a similar sequence to the previously mentioned room. In the second room of the subchapter, the jump is out of reach without the use of another piece of tech in which you hit the jump button just after passing by the spikes above the corner to get more distance. Mapping more than 1 jump button on your controls is recommended to make this easier. In the sixth room of the subchapter, you must cling onto walls barely elevated above spikes and continue jumping across them before doing another spike jump at the end to just barely grab the disappearing platform and make your way safely across. This all must be done quickly as your stamina will be running out by the end if you wait too much.

There are 9 Strawberries found in this subchapter.

By going left from the first screen of this subchapter, then another screen and taking the top transition, you arrive at the room with the first Strawberry. Don't get fooled by the spring on the floor here! Walking left innocently will get you launched into spikes above you so watch out for that. From then, you just go upward and it's 2 simple diagonal upward dashes to reach the Strawberry. Underneath this room you can encounter Theo and then exit that room on the right to return back where you came.

Found in the first room of the subchapter, you can get this Strawberry by dashing into a smashable wall concealed on the right behind some dirt on level with the lower bridge.

This berry will be a trek to reach, as you first need to find its hidden area. In the third room of the subchapter, you can dash directly upward to the left of the background sign with the arrow on it to reach a hidden tunnel. Go to the left and you'll be met with a large room. Climb up the right wall and attempt to climb the long traffic light block before jumping back, then dash into the area it opened. Then, grab the other traffic light block and jump on top of it as it returns using the hole in the ceiling to then dash left and ascend the wall. Then is a room with no floors and you just need to do some dashes to reach the Strawberry. This is the room with the Crystal Heart puzzle.

By breaking a smashable wall in the top-left of the fourth room of the subchapter, a room with the Strawberry is uncovered. Dash directly into both dash crystals, then cling onto the wall until they both refresh to return back.

In the same room as the previous berry is a smashable wall on the ceiling. In this room you must dash to both disappearing platforms and then the traffic light block to allow yourself to get to the top. In the following room you have to walk off of the platform into the Strawberry and then dash into the dash crystal inbetween a narrow spike tunnel and dash again diagonally upwards.

In the sixth room of the subchapter, a small gap in the floor can be spotted. To reach this you must simply fall down near the spikes and dash right to fall into it. To get to the berry you will need to jump across traffic light blocks which move into spikes, hold the wall after grabbing the berry, and return back once they've gone back down.

By exiting through the top transition of the sixth room of the subchapter, a room with a Strawberry can be found. Grab a hold of the bottom traffic light block and DO NOT jump until a bit after it stops, otherwise you will be thrust into the spikes on the ceiling. Instead allow yourself to be able to grab the upper traffic light block and then jump off of it after riding it to get to the Strawberry after a dash.

Found in the seventh room of the subchapter, you must position yourself to dash straight up after a slight push from the traffic light block. Wait a little bit after landing then jump to the right and wait if you need to in order to not dash into spikes.

Found in the eighth room of the subchapter, there are several ways you can approach this final Strawberry. From the left, you can walk off the platform and dash straight up to grab the traffic light block from the right which allows you to wall jump and grab the berry and make it to safety. You could also play it normally, then from the upper bridge fall and dash left to repeat the same process. You could also jump to the other side of the traffic light block as it returns, but this is riskier than the other methods.

Blue Crystal Hearts are collectibles throughout the game and are one of the three types of hearts which are used to unlock Chapter 8 and its alternate sides as well as Chapter 9 past the heart gate in Event Horizon (see this page for more information on the different types of hearts). The following page details how to obtain the blue Crystal Hearts in the game.

The Crystal Heart in this chapter can be found in Chapter 1's second sub-chapter, Crossing. After passing the house, the player must get on the first Conveyor-Belt Platform in the following room and advance to the second as usual; however, on the second Conveyor-Belt Platform, the player must jump left as they're flung into the air and dash upwards to the left of the up sign, revealing a secret passage. The player must then dash to the left from there to get to the room connecting to this screen's top-left corner. After a few screens, the player will arrive at the location of a computer. Here the Crystal Heart puzzle begins.

The computer will flash a sequence of colors; nearby, there will be a number of small, colored birds, each of whom corresponds with a color that the computer flashes. The computer will flash a series of colors intermittently, followed by the birds all moving in different directions. To obtain the heart, one must pay attention to the sequence of colors that the computer flashes, as well as the directions that the birds move in every time the sequence finishes. The player must dash in the direction that each bird corresponds to in the order in the computer's light sequence where that bird's color appears on the computer (in relation to the other colors, not in real time). The direction sequence that the player must perform is:

Performing this series of dashes will cause the birds to form into this chapter's Crystal Heart (entitled Pointless machines) which the player can then obtain.

The Crystal Heart in this chapter is located in Chapter 2's first sub-chapter, Start. In theory, this Crystal Heart should be quite easy to locate, being two screens up from the starting screen of the chapter. In practice, it is very difficult to locate, as there are no objects that will help one to get there. One of the ways to get there is by exploiting a piece of the game's physics that recharges the player's dash when the player moves from one screen to another. This mechanic is not directly taught in the game (although it is indirectly taught when the player attempts to collect an early strawberry in Chapter 3), and for this reason, it is regarded by many as one of the hardest Crystal Hearts to find without a guide. The mechanic allows the player to essentially climb thin air by dashing off of the right side of the first screen onto the second screen, then back, repeating until the player moves up to the screen above the first screen. After climbing up a wall from this third screen onto a fourth screen, the player can then fall down onto the third screen, dash onto the fourth screen, and repeat until one finds a wall. The player can then climb this wall, after which the player can easily reach the topmost screen, where one can simply walk over to this chapter's Crystal Heart (entitled Resurrections) and obtain it.

Another way to get to this crystal heart is to first get onto the second screen, climb up the wall, stand on the left edge of the platform above the second screen, jump to the far left of the platform and then dash left as soon as the player leaves the screen. By doing so, the player lands on the platform on the left and can then continue climbing up towards the crystal heart. 

The heart can also be seen (but not obtained) in the Awake subchapter of Chapter 2, where it is easier to locate, and a poem lies near it with hints of how to obtain it:

The Crystal Heart in Chapter 3 is located in the second sub-chapter, Huge Mess. After being tasked to help clean up by Mr. Oshiro, the player must advance to the lower path of the two in the upper right corner. Once the player reaches and activates the large button to clear the purple and white towels, one must advance not to the left as usual, but to the right. The player must then travel up into the crevice that a stream of water is falling out of to reveal a secret path, leading back to one of the earlier rooms of the path. One must then advance upwards and then to the left (in reverse of the way the player first goes through the area) until the player reaches the first room, where the player first runs into Theo in Chapter 3. There is a path at the top of the screen that was previously blocked by towels; the player must dash up to this path and follow it upward to find this chapter's Crystal Heart (entitled Scattered and lost) and obtain it.

Chapter 4's Crystal Heart is located at the very beginning of the second sub-chapter, Shrine. To reach the Crystal Heart, the player must cling to the Guided Platform, then navigate it left to avoid hitting the wall, after which the player should move it back to the right. Once the player lands, the player must go to the right, into the lit up area. Once one goes into the next room, the player should see a waterfall pouring into a pool of water. The player must then swim towards the bottom right corner, and keep swimming to the right until the player reaches a hidden area with a strawberry. The player must then dash into the Smashable Wall to the right to break it, after which the player should reach a tall room. One cannot reach the top normally; the player must crouch on top of the room's idiosyncratic white block until the player disappears. The player is now in the background instead of the foreground, thus allowing one to interact with objects in the background (a trick borrowed from Super Mario Bros. 3, which has a similar block with a similar gimmick). This object interaction allows the player to climb to the top of the screen, where the Crystal Heart (entitled Eye of the storm) is located.

Chapter 5's Crystal Heart is located in the second sub-chapter, Depths. After getting the key above the statue, the player must enter the room beneath the statue to the right, then hop on the nearby bubble and travel to the right. Instead of opening the door at the end of the room, the player must enter a second bubble and travel to the left, then dash up into the center of the second platform on their way back. This moves the player into a third bubble that they can use to travel upwards, leading to a secret path above the door. After making their way through the long hallway to reach the next room and going through that room as normal, the player must now head to the bottom of the following room and dash downwards to break the brown Smashable Wall in the floor. This reveals another locked door that they can use the key on, which leads to the Crystal Heart's room. In order to navigate in the room, one must go along the outer edges of the room, using a set of moving blocks and platforms to get to the Crystal Heart (entitled Quiet and falling) and obtain it.

Chapter 6's Crystal Heart is located at the beginning of the third sub-chapter, Hollows. At the start of the sub-chapter, the player must use the Angry Platform to break through the wall below to get to the first Feather. One must then use it to fly up-right, and then dash down to break the Smashable Wall, revealing the second Feather. The player must use that Feather to fly upwards, then climb to the third Feather, and finally use that Feather to fly to the left of the screen, revealing an entrance to a secret room. After going through the room and breaking another Smashable Wall, the player will see a puzzle with a statue, 6 colored crystals, 4 torches and 3 symbols. 

Bird Color Directions (see Chapter 1)

In order to solve the puzzle, one must repeat the pattern required to obtain the first chapter's Crystal Heart; doing so correctly will light up the first torch. The same thing must be done for the rest, but with slight alterations for each following torch: the second torch's pattern must be the first, but mirrored left-right (e.g an up-left on the first torch must be an up-right dash for the second); the third torch's pattern has to be mirrored up-down (e.g. an upwards dash on the first must be a downwards dash for the third), and the fourth one's pattern must be mirrored both up-down and left-right (e.g. an up-left dash on the first must be a down-right dash for the fourth). For a complete list of directions, see below:

After lighting up all 4 torches, the Crystal Heart (entitled Heavy and frail) will be granted on top of the statue.

To obtain the crystal heart in Chapter 7, you must find six Jewels hidden in each subchapter— a blue star for Reflection at the Start, a sapphire square for Forsaken City at 500 M, an emerald oval for Old Site at 1000 M, a gold circle for Celestial Resort at 1500 M, a pink diamond for Golden Ridge at 2000 M, and a white pearl for Mirror Temple at 2500 M. You obtain the crystal heart in 3000 M after getting all the Jewels.

The first Jewel is located at the end of the last screen of the Start subchapter. After bouncing off of the last Spring, the player must use both dashes to jump over the final Purple Orb, then climb up the wall on the right. The screen should move, revealing the first Jewel.

The route to 500 M's Jewel starts in the sub-chapter's 3rd screen, where, after going up on the first Traffic Light Block, the player must go left instead of going right at the intersection. The player should then go right after climbing to the top of the tall screen that follows. In the following room, just to the right of the second Traffic Light Block, there is a tiny gap in the ground, which the player must fall through to find the room with the second Jewel. Completing the spike-lined obstacle course will allow the player to obtain this Jewel.

For 1000 M's Jewel, the player must go through the upper left or upper right route of the 5th screen of the subchapter. If you choose the upper left route, you have to go up through the first Space Block, then use the Space Block on the right to break a Smashable Wall. You will then enter into a room with a strawberry. Going up through the spiked platform will lead you to the path to the Jewel. Going the upper right route will skip the berry. The player must dash to the right in the middle of two Space Blocks to break a Smashable Wall; breaking this wall will reveal another room with Skull Binoculars, as well as with a concealed Disappearing Platform which the player must stand on to fall to the chamber below. Completing this chamber will allow the player to obtain this Jewel.

1500 M's Jewel is at the end of the 7th screen of the subchapter and is probably the easiest one to find. Below the exit upwards into the 8th screen, a broken wall can be seen. Going through there and completing the room that it reveals will allow the player to obtain this Jewel.

2000 M's Jewel is a trek to get to. To the left of the second room is a seemingly pointless room. In one of the gaps above the player (the widest one above the pit of Crystal Spikes), there is a secret platform to stand on, which the player can use to jump all the way to the left of the screen. In the next screen, there is a broken area of the roof, providing another entrance to a secret platform. The player must get there, jump off to the left, dash up to the left, and then dash up as soon as the player is past the wall that they need to climb up. Going up through the hole will reveal the Jewel.

To reach 2500 M's Jewel, the player must take the first Red Bubble left, causing it to break the wall at the left of the first screen. The player must then enter the Red Bubble in the newly revealed screen and take that to the right, causing it to break several more walls before it eventually stops moving. The player must then go up and complete the following screen to obtain this Jewel.

At checkpoint 28 at 3000 M, the player must dash under the gap in the wall to the player's right, causing the camera to move and reveal the room with the Crystal Heart. If the player has all of the Jewels, they will pop out of the floor, and the Crystal Heart (entitled Pink sunrise) will move to a place where the player can obtain it.

The Crystal Heart in Chapter 8 is the most straightforward to obtain, as it is required to obtain at the end of the fourth subchapter, Heart of the Mountain, to complete the chapter. After getting past all of the chapter's obstacles, the player can complete the level and simultaneously be awarded the player with the Crystal Heart (entitled Heart of the mountain).

Debug Mode, a hidden feature only available on Celeste's PC version, unlocks various extra features intended for use during playtesting and game/mod development.

Debug Mode can be enabled via the following procedure:

Alternatively, Debug Mode can also be activated via the Everest mod, where Debug Mode can be toggled in the Mod Options menu.

Newly available features in Debug Mode include:

11 - Quiet and FallingCassette Room:05 - Mirror Temple (8-Bit)

Depths is the second subchapter of Chapter 5: Mirror Temple in Celeste. The subchapter starts with Madeline finding Theo inside of a mirror, with both being confused on how it happened. After continuing forward through the subchapter, the player will eventually come across a giant mirror which, after activating it by hitting 2 dash switches, will suck Madeline into a dream. There will then be a section where the player plays as a Seeker to kill Madeline in this dream and wake her up, ending the subchapter. Aside from informally introducing Seekers, red walls, and barriers via the Seeker dream, this subchapter also introduces yellow torches. The Crystal Heart of Chapter 5 and the Cassette to unlock Chapter 5's B-Side can both be obtained in this subchapter.

There will be many dark rooms in this subchapter where the player can hardly see beyond nearby Madeline until touching blue torches to see the path. A key is needed to advance further past a certain point in the subchapter which requires a long detour. However, using the method to get the Crystal Heart of the chapter, it can be ignored and it's possible to advance past the lock. This is particularly helpful in Golden Strawberry runs as it reduces risking death and also saves time.

After entering the mirror near the end of the subchapter, the player is put in control of a Seeker and has to traverse through a room to get back to Madeline and kill her with the Seeker. This does not count as an actual death in-game. The controls of the Seeker will be very slippery especially dashing into walls. Just like how Seekers normally work, the player as a Seeker can't get past barriers and will need to dash to destroy red walls.

The Crystal Heart of this chapter will be tricky to find as it requires you to use a key to unlock a lock found in the eleventh room of the subchapter. On the floor of this room is a smashable wall which unlock the path to the lock. However, you'll need to use a key on a lock earlier in the subchapter normally. By going to the ninth room of the subchapter early, a secret area is found by dashing straight up into the second floating platform after riding the red bubble to the left. This will give access to another red bubble, which you can take upward into a tunnel in the ceiling. By getting the key from the level normally, then going through this path, you can arrive at the ninth room of the subchapter with a key and unlock the lock which guards the Crystal Heart room.

The Cassette room is hidden deep into a streak of berry rooms which are found by going to the bottom-right transition of the fourth room of the subchapter. Go straight right from the first room you arrive in, then in the next room play through it to hit the dash switch and unlock the path further right. Next will be a Strawberry Seed room, but by going to the right there's a hidden passage which leads to the Cassette room.

There are 11 Strawberries found in this subchapter.

Above the left side of the first room of the subchapter is a hidden gap to another room. In this room, go to the red bubble and take it right to grab the Strawberry, then quickly dash straight down. Steer yourself slightly left and take the bottom red bubble left before dashing up to get to safety.

In the second room of the subchapter, a transition can be seen in the middle of the room on the floor. Stand on the swap block in this room, then dash and move right to launch yourself to the wall and climb it to reach the Strawberry.

By going to the left side of the second room of the subchapter above the entrance, you can find an area with some crystals and a swap block. Dash to this swap block, hold onto it, then jump up the corridor when you arrive at it. In the room you arrive in, go to the top-left. To get the Winged Strawberry in the next room, ride up the first two red bubbles to the ceiling then move left during your descent to reach the next one. For the third one, ride it left and make your way up the left area before dashing diagonally into the Winged Strawberry. Dash right as you fall, and you can easily make it out by riding the red bubbles up and dashing between them.

In the ceiling of the second room of the subchapter near the right you can find a gap to an upper room. It may be tricky, but you need to jump right from the ledge and dash right to hold onto the swap block and let go right as the other swap block returns to the left. From there, jump right and dash diagonally up-right to get above where the third swap block was, and you can climb up to where the Strawberry hovers.

Through another gap in the ceiling to the left of the one from the previous berry, this Strawberry is accessed.

By going to the top-left of the fourth room of the subchapter, there's a transition to another berry room. Jump and dash diagonally up-left to get to the red bubble and ride it left. Go to the next red bubble up-right and keep moving right after collecting the Strawberry. Dash into the next red bubble and take it right, then dash down before hitting the crystals.

By going to the top-right of the fourth room of the subchapter, another transition is found to a berry room. Ride the red bubble at the start to the right and, before hitting the crystals, dash diagonally up-right and grab the wall and the dash crystal. Jump off the wall and dash again diagonally up-right, then climb this wall to reach the other red bubble. Direct it to the left and dash diagonally up-left before reaching the crystals. Land in the small gap on the floor where there are no crystals, and you can get back to the entrance.

At the bottom of the fourth room of the subchapter is a transition at the left side. Dash in place to activate the swap blocks and then quickly run to the left to fall into the gap in the floor. Jump to the left out of this gap when the swap blocks return to normal. Hold onto the swap block and dash to get the momentum to jump off and land where the Strawberry is.

By going to the right of the bottom of the fourth room of the subchapter, there are 2 gaps in the floor which both lead to the same room which has a berry. Walk off the platform and move towards the center to grab the middle wall. Jump above the wall to the other side and grab the wall again. Jump off the wall and dash into a red bubble to take you back to the start of the room.

Go 2 rooms right of the bottom of the fourth room of the subchapter and from there the top-right transition leads to a Strawberry. To reach it, dash to where the lower swap block is going to be and jump over the crystal as the swap block moves back. Do this again for the next swap block and then dash up on the right side to get to the transition.

Complete the steps for the previous berry but instead of heading for the top-left transition, go for the dash switch on the ceiling above the second swap block. This opens the temple gate on the right which leads to a seeded Strawberry. Dash directly up into the leftmost seed and climb up the wall. Then, jump off the wall and climb the swap block and jump above it to both grab the next seed and land on the spring. Then you can either move right from the spring and dash to the wall to climb to the last seed or boost yourself to the right by dashing from the swap block.

02 - Old Site (Black Moonrise Mix)Final Room:02 - Old Site (8-Bit)

Dream Altar is the third and final subchapter of Chapter 2: Old Site B-Side in Celeste. The subchapter has a lot of difficult space block challenges including some rooms with a single large space block. The red Crystal Heart to complete the B-Side can be found in this subchapter.

This subchapter is solely focused on making challenges around space block traversal and less of a focus on space block jumps specifically. A lot of rooms here will need fast dashes to avoid being thrust into spikes from a space block. The fourth and fifth rooms of the subchapter are unique in that they are enormous rooms with a single central space block which has to be passed through many times all around it to navigate to the end.

In this room, a single long space block is found above the starting area which should be dashed up through from below after bouncing on the spring. Then you need to go a bit to the right to dash back down through it, but make sure to dash straight to the right quickly after exiting before you fall into the spikes below. When you bounce on the spring, be sure to keep holding right as to not bounce into the spikes above, then you can dash up through the space block again. Move right after this, fall down the corridor, then jump off the left wall to allow yourself to dash straight up into the space block at the end corridor.

This room will have a ton of small space blocks to rapidly dash through. The first two just have to be dashed straight up through, then the third one must be dashed straight right through. Right after dashing through the third space block, dash straight down to evade the spikes on the wall. Move to the left a bit and then jump off the wall at the bottom into the dash crystal. From there, dash diagonally up-right into the next space block, and right after that dash down-right into another space block and do a space block jump out of it. This will be awkward as it's a diagonal space block jump, but it functions just the same and allows you to reach the right wall. Climb up this right wall, then dash diagonally up-left through the last space block and dash again to the right to finish off the room.

Dash up through the first space block and swerve to the right to land in the area between both sides' spikes. Wall jump from the left to the right and dash up through the second space block, then do this again as you go to the right to reach the next space block. Fall through the small gap in the platforms above, then when you arrive at the larger square-shaped space block, dash diagonally up-right through it. Fall down a bit, then dash diagonally up-left through it. Dash straight up again through another space block, then dash straight right and do a space block jump out of the other space block. From there, nudge yourself to the left as you fall and dash right into the last space block to exit the room.

This room has some skull binoculars available to preview the room, if needed. In this room, a few key tokens are scattered about which you can get to using the tall central space block. Start by dashing straight up through the space block and collect the key token at the top while quickly wall jumping above the spikes to fall to the right. Line yourself up and dash left through the space block, doing a space block jump. Climb the left wall and about halfway up, jump to the right to get over the floating platform and collect the next key token and continue falling to the lower area. From there, dash to the right side of the space block, then fall and dash back to the left with a space block jump and you'll reach the final key token. Jump off the wall and do a diagonal up-right dash through the space block in order to get over the key-activated platform. After you get shot out, dash to the right to the wall above and start doing wall jumps to get out of the room.

This room has some skull binoculars available to preview the room, if needed. This room has a large central space block similar to the last one, but this one is wider. From the small opening at the start, do a diagonal up-right dash into the space block. Either do a jump out of the space block or re-grab it if you know how to, then dash left through the space block from the upper half of the hole you arrived at. After doing a space block jump to the left, climb the left wall and dash straight up into the key token and dash crystal. The key-activated platform will be moved just outside the right side of space block, so after you collect these objects, you should fall down and dash to the right and collide with the key-activated platform (this is unneeded but helpful). From where you arrive, dash diagonally up-left into another hole in the left side, then fall down a bit before dashing straight to the right into the opened area. You're free to do a dash to the right to get above the spikes below, then wall jump up until you arrive at the dash crystal, then dash up-right. After arriving at the top-left area, hold to the right and dash right through the space block with a space block jump and you can complete the room.

This will be the cassette block room of the chapter. There's actually no way to die here and there are only blue cassette blocks. Right as the cassette blocks disappear (aka turning to pink), dash straight up to collect the dash crystal, then dash straight up again. When the blocks come back, quickly do some wall jumps back and forth and you should be able to reach the other dash crystal, and from there you can keep stalling until you can wall jump all the way to a height where you can dash into the Crystal Heart to win the level.

08 - Scattered and Lost  Cassette Room:  03 - Celestial Resort (8-Bit) 

Elevator Shaft is the third subchapter of Chapter 3: Celestial Resort in Celeste. The subchapter has the player continue through Mr Oshiro's resort. About halfway through the subchapter, Mr. Oshiro reveals that his insecurities are the cause of the dust bunnies across the hotel. The Cassette to unlock Chapter 3's B-Side can be obtained in this subchapter.

The first room of the subchapter is the titular elevator shaft which Madeline must get to the top of with some simple wall jumps. At the top of this room on the right, Theo can be seen exiting the vent which he entered earlier and will have a conversation with Madeline in which both of them talk about their feelings on Mr. Oshiro. The following rooms are filled with dust bunnies or sludge-spawning tiles across the floor. Near the end of one of the rooms, Mr. Oshiro is panicking and talking to himself about how he will keep Madeline in the resort. He invites Madeline to follow him after noticing her, not realizing he just created a barrier of dust bunnies. The player has to go down from this room and into a couple more rooms to reach a key needed to unlock the way to the other side of the dust bunny blockade.

The Cassette room is hidden to the left of the key found in the seventh room of the subchapter through a hole in the wall with light protruding through it. Through a room in the Start of this chapter, the player could have gotten a preview of the location and layout of this room.

There are 4 Strawberries found in this subchapter.

Found in the third room of the subchapter, this Strawberry may at first sight seem impossible to get. The key to being able to get the berry is being extremely careful with the sludge-spawning tiles you step on. First of all, try and land at the furthest right possible area on the first platform elevated over the dust bunnies and don't move. Jump up and dash left without any motion inputs. Next, jump to the left and dash straight up to grab onto the lower ledge. Jump up from there and land on the right side of the ledge. Then, jump left again and dash directly upward and steer yourself right to land on the right section of the upper ledge. From here you can dash right into the berry and land in the lower area where you didn't already stand. Walk to the left, jumping over the sludge you spawned earlier, and from there you can jump left and dash straight up to land on the left side of the lower ledge. Do this again to land on the left side of the upper ledge. Finish the room like normal to finally claim the Strawberry.

In the room below the cutscene with Mr. Oshiro, this Strawberry is found. This will be similarly tricky to the last one and require some planning ahead. A generally reliable strat is to walk off the platform right as the moving sludge at the bottom reaches the right. Dash to the right to land at as far right on the platform as possible. Jump to the wall and climb up it, then jump off and dash straight up to grab the berry and then hold onto the wall again. Climb up a bit and then, when the moving sludge reaches the right, jump to the platform to make it past the sludge you previously spawned. Finish the room like normal to claim the berry.

At the start of the long horizontal room containing the key, a gap in the floor is found. By going down it, a room containing two Strawberries can be entered. On the right area, hold onto the wall just under where the moving sludges are going back and forth. When the one in the middle moves to the left, dash directly upward, then move to the right and you should be able to fall into the gap between two moving sludges. Jump from this wall on the left to the right and collect the dash crystal, then jump back to the left side and climb up the wall. Repeat the first step but mirrored to get to safety and claim this Strawberry.

In the same room as the previous berry, this one is found hiding on behind a cloth on the left. To enter the area, hold onto the left wall and dash directly up just as the middle moving sludge moves to the right to then move yourself left to land on the floor below. Jump and dash up when the moving sludge guarding the Strawberry is moving away to grab the berry, then fall back down and land on the lower floor without touching the sludge you spawned earlier. Exit the area by repeating the process of entering but mirrored.

MadelineBadelineTheoOld WomanMr. Oshiro

Epilogue is the chapter after Chapter 7: The Summit and plays after the credits. It's a small chapter consisting of a cutscene and the ending screen showing the player their deaths, strawberries and time.

After the Epilogue ends, Chapter 8: Core is unlocked for the player, however they need 4 Crystal Hearts to access it.

If you collected 0-19 strawberries, everyone has a bland expression, Badeline does not not speak during this scene, while she looks down at the pie, disappointed. The pie consists of a rather pathetic and bland design, the filling being the same color as the crust. Theo seems to accept the pie while Mr. Oshiro complains and Old Woman has the same emotion, saying that strawberry pies are supposed to have strawberries in them.

If you collected 20-49 strawberries, everyone seems to accept the pie more, this time the pie has a single strawberry with red filling. Theo does not accept the pie this time, but Badeline complains and says that she will eat the pie herself.  

If you collected 50-89 strawberries, the pie has the same strawberry on the top, but the filling is now visible and everyone is more satisfied. Everyone congratulates Madeline while Badeline is not impressed with Mr. Oshiro. 

If you collected 90-149 strawberries, the pie has double strawberries on top, and the pie has more coating. Old Woman says that it makes her baking " a run for its money." Badeline is impressed with the pie while Theo says "Holy crap!" while Mr. Oshiro invites Madeline to join his banquet while Theo wants to give Alex a slice of the pie, saying "she'll die when she tastes it."

If you collected 150 or more strawberries, the pie now has three strawberries with 2 scoops of strawberry ice cream. The strawberry also has wings on the top, and the crust of the pie is adorned with whipped cream. Theo loves the pie. Madeline, telling Theo to "be honest," does not believe that the pie is actually good, but Old Woman says that he is right. Mr. Oshiro says that it is magnificent and "a symphony for taste buds."  Badeline wants to take credit for this, and she is carrying a strawberry in her hair.

04 - Golden Ridge (Golden Feather Mix)Final Room:04 - Golden Ridge (8-Bit)

Eye of the Storm is the fourth and final subchapter of Chapter 4: Golden Ridge B-Side in Celeste. The subchapter uses all remaining elements of the chapter aside from snowballs, which are absent from the B-Side. The red Crystal Heart to complete the B-Side can be found in this subchapter.

Unlike the A-Side of chapter 4 which had its final subchapter be categorized by harsh winds and snowballs being in most of the rooms, this subchapter has no such gimmick. In fact, snowballs make no appearance in the entirety of the B-Side. This subchapter is known for rooms in it requiring some great precision and timing.

This will be the only room to have wind shifting from blowing left and right on a timer. In this room you'll encounter many white clouds and a few protrusions from the bottom with crystal spikes on top of them. You should only go right when the wind is blowing to the right and stall on a cloud while the wind is blowing to the left until it blows right again.

This room has some skull binoculars available to preview the room, if needed. In this room you'll find the only pink clouds of the B-Side as well as tons of small corridors surrounded by crystal spikes. For most of this room, the challenge involves jumping quickly off of pink clouds before being bounced to your death. Jump and dash to land on the first pink cloud and jump right immediately after landing to then fall a bit before dashing diagonally up-right onto another pink cloud. This pink cloud should also be jumped off of immediately, then you can dash up-right over the first pillar of crystal spikes to land on another pink cloud. Get a large bounce up from this pink cloud to barely make it over the pillar of crystal spikes on the right, then fall until you can dash up-right onto yet another pink cloud. Bounce up while avoiding the crystals and crystal spikes above and swerve to the right to fall down the corridor, once again dodging crystals and crystal spikes, to eventually dash into the green bubble below. Launch yourself to the right and dash upward, then climb up the wall to the left. Next, you'll need to jump onto the pink cloud to the right and keep moving right after immediately jumping off to dash straight right onto another pink cloud, then do this again. For the last pink cloud, you'll need to get a high bounce to reach the end area of the room while avoiding crystal spikes as you descend.

This room seems insanely tricky at first glance, having key tokens all across and in seemingly impossible spots, but it is possible. For the first one, ride the green bubble up and dash diagonally up-right at the highest point possible. Climb up and jump to the left to collect the key token, then fall down while moving right back into the green bubble to then take it to the right. Dash into the next green bubble and aim it up-left. Climb all the way up this wall to then jump to the right, dash straight up to get the key token, then fall to the left to avoid the single crystal. From there, fall into the green and take it to the right. Dash straight up pre-emptively from this launch, then fall to the right into another green bubble. Aim this one to the right, then dash straight up out of it and grab the right platform. Wall jump back and forth across these gaps in the crystals to get another key token and a dash crystal, then fall down and use your reclaimed dash to go right into another green bubble. This one should be launched up-right, then do a straight upward dash into another key token and fall to the right into the last green bubble. After aiming this green bubble right, wind will briefly appear to boost you to the right, and you can dash diagonally up-right into the last key token to activate the key-activated platform and ride it up to the end of the room.

Wind will harshly be blowing to the right in this room, so you'll need to do many leaps of faith. After jumping off the ledge, do an up-right dash into the first green bubble and aim it directly down. Dash right into the next green bubble, then aim it up-right such that you can dash up into the next green bubble. This green bubble should launch you up-right to allow you to get over the crystals, but then you need to hold left so that you aren't blown into the crystals on the right. Dash left, when possible, into the next green bubble which should be aimed down-right to allow you to dash up-right into the next one. This green bubble has to be aimed up-left and you should climb up the wall as soon as possible. Do a jump to the right over the pillar to the right and then dash into the green bubble to the right. Aim this green bubble straight up, then do a dash straight up while also slightly moving to the right so that you can land on the nearby disappearing platform. Using the wind, jump and dash to the next disappearing platform all the way to the right. Keep jumping and running to the right across the remaining disappearing platforms while the wind temporarily disappears before coming back to give you the boost needed to dash diagonally up-right and reach the falling platform at the end, which you then need to just jump up to reach the end.

This room has some skull binoculars available to preview the room, if needed. This will be the cassette block room of the chapter. Wind is blowing harshly to the left the whole time, so your dashes need to really count. Go onto the lower part of the ledge on the left and dash to the right when the blue blocks appear so that you can land on the first one. Do a jump and dash right when the pink blocks appear to land on the next one, then repeat again but with a diagonally up-right dash on the next cycle. Run to the right a bit on this blue cassette block, then jump to the left and dash straight up into the dash crystal. Climb up the pink block briefly, then jump to the right and dash straight right into the green bubble, which should also be aimed straight right so that you can dash straight right again to land on the platform. Standing on the lower ledge, dash to the right when the blocks turn to pink, touching the dash crystal as you fall, and the final pink cassette block should disappear right as you pass it vertically which allows you to dash straight into the Crystal Heart and win the level.

In Celeste, your file has Stamps that appear for achieving certain levels of completion. These stamps vary from beating the game to collecting Strawberries or other Collectibles. A list of Stamps can be seen below.

These Stamps can be collected by passing certain thresholds in Celeste.

This is the main stamp in the game, and most likely the first one most players get on their save file. It looks like the flag that you see on The Summit. It is achieved by completing Chapter 7: The Summit.

After beating Chapter 9: Farewell, you get a little bird stamp on your save file, signifying that you beat all 9 Chapters in the game.

If you collect all 8 Cassette Tapes in every chapter, you unlock this stamp. Cassette Tapes unlock B-Sides.

To get this stamp, you need to collect every Blue Crystal Heart (found in each A-Side Chapter) and every Red Crystal Heart. (found in each B-Side chapter)

After collecting all 24 Crystal Hearts (including the C-Side Yellow Hearts), you earn this stamp.

After collecting 175 Strawberries, this stamp will appear on your file.

After collecting 25 of the 26 Golden Strawberries you will earn this stamp. The flying one in Chapter 1, counts toward this number. 

Although not a stamp, after 100%ing the game, your file will turn golden.

These Stamps appear as bookmarks on the side of your file, instead of actual stamps on the file itself.

This Stamp will appear when the selected save file has Assist Mode enabled. The stamp itself is a blue circle with wings, signifying that it helps the player when used.

This Stamp appears when the save file has Variant Mode enabled. The stamp itself is a purple circle with a pencil, indicating that the game has been modified.

This Stamp appears when the selected file is in Cheat Mode. Unlike the Assist Mode and Variant Mode Stamps, this Stamp is permanently attached to your save file, with no way to deactivate it unless you manually edit your save file with a text editor.

01 - Forsaken City (Sever the Skyline Mix)

Forsaken City C-Side is the C-Side of Chapter 1: Forsaken City in Celeste. This C-Side primarily focuses on quick reflexes with traffic light blocks, which is needed to make it into small corridors surrounded by spikes across the level.

All three rooms of this level will feature traffic light blocks as the main object to work with. The first room has a cramped maze-like area with spikes covering nearly every side, with the method of getting through being traffic light blocks which will very quickly zip the player across the corridors and potentially right into more spikes if they aren't fast enough to get out. The second room has some falling platforms and lacks a floor for the entirety of the room except the start and the end. The difficulty comes with using traffic light block momentum upwards to make it above the areas while dodging spikes on the ceiling. The final room has a few sections utilizing different aspects of traffic light blocks the player needs to tackle, such as wall jumping on vertical ones or jumping off of horizontally moving ones at the right time.

This first room seems incredibly daunting with spikes all over and seemingly no way to make it through, but the key here is dashing up while holding onto traffic light blocks as they move you to the designated gaps. Jump and grab onto the first traffic light block, then dash straight up as soon as you reach the gap above with the dash crystal. Dash straight right after this, collecting another dash crystal, then grab the left wall. Wall jump to the right and grab the traffic light block, then repeat the process where you dash straight up as you pass under the dash crystal and then dash straight right to claim another and grab the next wall on the left. Jump to the right and grab yet another traffic light block and dash straight up when you pass under the dash crystal it approaches, then move left and grab the other traffic light block nearby. This one will be pushing you against the direction you're going, unlike all the other ones in the room, so make sure to dash a bit earlier than usual to grab the dash crystal as you'll be moving to the right as you dash up. After dashing up, you'll collect another dash crystal and can dash straight right to the end of the room.

This room has some skull binoculars available to preview the room, if needed. Jump and dash straight right to land on the first falling platform, then quickly jump right and dash straight right again, grabbing the next falling platform. Jump over it to the right to land on one last falling platform, then jump to the right off of this one and dashing right to grab a traffic light block. When this traffic light block is about three-fourths of the way up its travel distance, release the grab button and gently move left to make it up to the area above where you can grab the left wall without bumping into the spikes on the ceiling below. Wall jump to the right, then slide down the right wall until you can grab the right side of the wall below. Jump to the right and wrap around to grab the right side of the next traffic light block, then let go of it after it travels its entire path to be flung all the way to the right and grab one more traffic light block. Release the grab button for this one, again, at three-fourths up its path, then move left a bit to make it up to the ending area of the room.

This room has some skull binoculars available to preview the room, if needed. All C-Side final rooms will be very long and have plenty of constantly changing challenges to do all in a row. To start off, grab the first traffic light block, then jump over it to the right immediately following that and fall down to the area it travels to, then wall jump off its right side to then grab the traffic light block just to the right. Ride this up to the top of its path and release the grab button, then move right to get over all the spikes and fall back down to then grab its right side. Wait a bit, then wall jump to the right and dash straight up, then move right in the air to be able to land on another traffic light block in the next area. Jump to the right onto another traffic light block quickly, then jump further and dash up to grab the right side of a traffic light block above. This will bring you into a wall of spikes, so jump to the right off of it before it gets close to that point and you'll arrive at a wall to the right. Jump off of it and carefully fall into the hole below, where you'll land on a traffic light block taking you to the left. Stand still and try to dash straight up as you're directly below the sole key token, then grab the wall until the traffic light block starts coming back at which point you can land on it. The key-activated platform will move to the left a bit, so you can jump off of the traffic light block and grab onto the key-activated platform's left side, then climb and jump over it to grab its right side. Jump to the right from the bottom half of the platform while not going too quickly as to not hit the spikes on the wall, then as you pass below this wall's right side you can dash straight up and grab it. Wall jump to the right and grab another traffic light block, jumping at a relatively early point, then fall into the gap below to land on a floor with one more traffic light block to the right. Grab it, climbing up slightly, and release the grab button to be flung straight up, then dash straight right into the Crystal Heart to complete the level.

04 - Golden Ridge (Golden Feather Mix)

Golden Ridge C-Side is the C-Side of Chapter 4: Golden Ridge in Celeste. This C-Side has the player make tight and fast maneuvers around crystals as well as going with extremely strong wind.

Starting from this C-Side, generally C-Sides will start getting noticeably harder and have more difficult rooms than just the final one. The first room has some wall bounces being done out of green bubbles. The second room has a tricky triggered platform which the player must shift sides of multiple times to make it to the top of the room. The final room has harsh wind blowing to the right, making control of Madeline incredibly difficult.

Jump off the ledge and dash into the green bubble and direct it straight upwards. When you are lined up with the bit of the wall to the left, hit the jump button and start holding right to do a wall bounce to get over the crystals. From the fall after the wall bounce, dash straight right into the next green bubble and do the same thing again. Move to the left after going right from the wall bounce to grab the wall, then jump to the right and dash right into the last green bubble to do one more wall bounce with the same process and reach the end of the room.

This room has some skull binoculars available to preview the room, if needed. This room will be vertically oriented with a single triggered platform to help you make it to the top, but crystals will come in your way a ton so you'll need to jump to the other side frequently. Jump to the triggered platform and grab its left side, then immediately jump over it to grab the right side and climb a bit, then after this jump to the right wall and then wall jump back to the left, over the triggered platform, then grab its left side again. When the triggered platform approaches the crystals above, jump off to the left and dash straight up, then move right again to grab the triggered platform again. Climb to the top and jump to the right side of the triggered platform so that you can collect the dash crystal, then grab the right side and jump back over to the left and grab the left side. Jump off to the left after a bit and dash straight up and climb up the left wall, then you can jump right and grab the triggered platform again and jump over it to the end of the room.

This room has some skull binoculars available to preview the room, if needed. Once you step past the starting ledge, wind will start blowing to the right at a very strong rate. Landing on pink clouds in this environment can be very tricky. Jump to the right and dash straight right fairly early to make it to the pink cloud as the wind appears. Bounce up while holding left a bit as to not be blown off of the pink cloud, then stop holding right after a bit after your bounce as you start to fall. Dash straight right to land on the next pink cloud but do it fairly far to the left so you don't overshoot it. Simple land on the pink cloud, then jump right immediately after and dash straight up, nudging left a bit such that the wind pushes you perfectly onto the next pink cloud, which you should do a large bounce off of followed by holding left for a bit to not be blown into crystal spikes on the right. After falling a bit, you can dash straight right into the corridor below for a brief safe spot. Run to the right and jump right, then dash up-right into a green bubble. Take this green bubble down-right and keep holding right. You'll arrive in another green bubble which should be aimed up-right, then dash straight up before being blown into crystals to the right and you'll make it to another green bubble. Aim this straight right and continue holding right, then dash up-right about at the point when you pass the blue flag in the background. You'll make it to a triggered platform which you need to simply grab and allow to move up. Hold right as soon as it's about to be destroyed to make it to one last green bubble, which you should aim up-right and then dash up-right shortly after popping out of it. You'll then reach a disappearing platform four units wide, then another one which is three units wide is to the right which you can just jump to carefully. Jump again to land on a two unit wide disappearing platform, then once more to a one unit wide disappearing platform, then jump all the way to the right to be able to dash diagonally up-right into the Crystal Heart to complete the level.

Golden Strawberries become available to collect in each chapter after completing Chapter 8: Core B-Side. Each Golden Berry requires the player to finish a chapter without dying in order to be collected. If the player dies, they will be sent back to the room with the Golden Strawberry. This room is usually the first in the chapter, with the exception of Chapter 6: Reflection A-Side, all sides of Chapter 8: Core, and Chapter 9: Farewell. In these levels, as well as the A and B-sides of Chapter 7: The Summit, starting from these Golden Strawberries will not give the player a clear time, although earning the Strawberry will set the player's lowest-death record to 0.

Golden Strawberries tend to require a lot of practice. The main difference between regular play and attempting to obtain Golden Strawberries is that in regular play, many players will take a trial and error approach. This means that these players may clear harder rooms by luck or by methods that are easily forgettable.

Relying on luck, however, can only take the player so far. This guide aims to provide strategies which help individual screens to be completed faster and, above all, more consistently. Some of these may use advanced movement. (If you are unfamiliar with advanced movement techniques, it is advised to check out the Moves page). General knowledge of the game mechanics and being able to consistently pull off Super/Hyperdashes certainly helps.

It's good to know the route ahead of time, so a player does not unnecessarily risk going into rooms outside the main path; therefore, a practice run of the longer chapters can help prepare for the task at hand.

1A's very low difficulty makes it very easy to obtain the Golden Strawberry for the level as long as the player is not reckless, as the level is short and without many difficult sections.

Completing 1A without dashing will allow the player to collect the Winged Golden Strawberry. The Winged Golden Strawberry is unique because unlike other golden berries, the player does not have to worry about dying and it can be obtained before beating 8B.

1B is a much harder level than 1A. To obtain the Golden Berry, the player must have a decent understanding of how momentum works in this game, often requiring them to grab the zipper in a specific way to pass an obstacle. In addition, many rooms require the player to manage their stamina properly.

In the stamina management rooms, it is recommended to learn how to wallkick (which will not consume stamina). If a player is feeling comfortable enough, they can do neutral jumps in certain moments. Knowing these tricks will help reduce the risk of running out of stamina.

1C is usually considered the easiest or second easiest C-Side to beat with a Golden Strawberry, as the level's gameplay is relatively straightforward.

In the first room, dashing upwards into the crystals is the easiest and least risky way to get through the zippers.

In the second room, it is recommended to grab the first vertical zipper in the middle and the second one in the top or bottom. If the player is comfortable with advanced movement, they can wavedash or extended hyper to the first falling block, grab the second one, and do another wavedash on the final falling block, which allows the upwards zippers in the middle of the room to be skipped.

2A is a slightly harder level than 1A, though one minor skip to note does exist and cuts off some of the challenges. 

The final vertical room of the Badeline chase sequence has multiple quicker strategies. The most notable skip in the final room is a noticeable platform at the beginning that hangs from a wall near some spikes, which leads to a narrow passage that must be dashed through to reach.

Madeline standing at the location which the skip can be done

2B's Golden Strawberry is generally considered to be either easier or about as difficult as the one in 1B (especially easier if the player is comfortable with jumping out of Dream Blocks).

The majority of difficult rooms involve Badeline chase segments, so it is recommended to find a safe strategy for these rooms. In addition, some rooms can be made easier by keeping a hold onto Dream Blocks (done by holding grab and the opposite direction in which the player initially dashed).

In the first room of the final subchapter, there's no need to jump off of the dream block as the player can grab the side of it to make moving around easier. It will still be required later in this section though. Once the player goes to the cassette room, they can take their time as it is impossible to die.

2C's Golden Strawberry is generally tied with 1C's Golden Strawberry in terms of difficulty. The main challenge is mostly about learning the final room, as it is the only one that will likely be challenging for a player. In the last room, there are a few spots in which the player can grab the side of a Dream Block to align themselves to dashes. However, the player should not use this strategy at the last Dream Block before the Shield-Activated Platform, as the platform will rise and prevent the player from finishing the level if they wait too long. The player should dash directly into the heart immediately after leaving the last Dream Block so that they are not pushed into the spikes by the heart.

3A's most difficult subchapters are the second (Huge Mess) and the final chase (Presidential Suite).

In Huge Mess, try to find a room order that suits you the most (example: middle - bottom - top). The less clutter there is in a section, the harder is it to pass them. Try to start with the section you find the most troublesome, and then go with the easier ones. It may be easiest to do the section with the room you find hardest first.

In Elevator Shaft, the player may attempt to skip the subchapter's key by performing a demodash. However, this is a risky strategy. In the room with the key, the player will want to dash to the sinking platforms when the dust bunnies move to the left.

In Presidential Suite, it's better to take it slow. Rushing and being impatient often results with the player dying in this level. In the part with a row of crystals over the dust bunnies, the best strategy is to wait until Oshiro is about to charge at you, and then jump over him and keep dashing. Doing this section like that gives you enough time to take it slow.

While it may look scary at first, 3B is surprisingly very well designed around the cycles. 3B's difficulty mainly derives from its first two subchapters. Many of 3B's screens can be completed in different ways, depending on your timing. It's recommended to keep that in mind to find alternative strategies for certain rooms. Learning how to neutral jump or bounce off of walls without grabbing them helps a lot with managing stamina in many rooms.

The first checkpoint is rather straightforward apart from the room with Shields that can be problematic. The best way is to keep it slow and pay attention to the cycles. You can hang on the top corners of the bottom platforms without getting hit by the dust bunny. That way you can wait until the spring is close to you, allowing you to regain your dash and stamina.

The second checkpoint may be the hardest one to learn. In the second room, prepare to jump off of the left walls when the dust bunnies are about to move to the right. You can grab the top block as a safe spot. Do the same with the rest of the walls to proceed. The laundry room can be tricky to learn, but it gets very consistent if you get the muscle memory down. In the first laundry room (the one with blue walls), you can wallbounce off of the top right wall to grab the crystal and grab the overhang. It's a good safe spot to land on the purple platform below you. The third laundry section can also be started with a wallbounce to save some stamina. Dust bunnies have a longer delay before they move, which is something you have to get used to when practicing.

The third room is mostly about muscle memory due to awkward timings in some spots. In the second room, you can keep jumping off of the left wall to time your dash between the dust bunnies. If done properly, they will move in the middle of your jump, allowing you to dash between them and jumping off of the right wall. This strategy may be a bit risky at first, but it saves a lot of stamina. The second last section of this checkpoint looks very stressful, however it's actually really simple. Jump in between them when they move up, then perform a diagonal downwards dash when they're about to move down. If you understand the timing, this part becomes very simple. The last section can be done by just dashing from spring to spring. Depending on your timing, the cycles may be different, so try to find an alternative strategy just in case if the cycle won't be in your favor.

In the first Oshiro room, it's recommended to jump on him or climb up when he's about to charge, allowing you to regain your dash and stamina by bouncing off of his head, which can be very helpful at the end of the room. The fourth room can be tricky, however if you perform an Extended Super at the beginning, you will keep an extra dash while you'll still be collecting the dash crystals, giving you a secondary boost if Oshiro is about to attack you. This allows you to dodge him or the dust bunnies in a very consistent pattern. In the last room, don't waste your dashes, as using them in a wrong spot will most likely end up with dying to the fuzzy walls. The cassette room is pretty straightforward, however try to take it slow to avoid dying on it. The wall on the bottom can be grabbed from different sides and the springs can help you grabbing many Shields at once.

3C is often considered one of the harder C-Sides for many players. However, most of this level is muscle memory. In the first section, the player needs to jump when the dust bunnies are about to move, and then keep dashing diagonally upwards as soon as they grab the crystals. It often takes a while to get the rhythm, but once learned, it becomes consistent.

The third room requires at least one Oshiro bounce at the very end. Use the lightning effect as a visual cue to understand when it's best to jump. He attacks right after the animation ends, so try to jump when it's about to end and you should be able to land on his head easily. Once you get to the gate at the end, you can grab on its side and start moving up when Oshiro is about to charge. It should end with him landing right under Madeline, causing you to bounce off of him. This can be used to regain your dash in an easier way at the very end.

A good portion of this chapter is just getting used to the wind physics. You can use tricks such as Supers or Hypers to speed it up, however try to use them only when you're feeling comfortable with it. Autoscrollers are another sections worth practicing.

The snowball section may be tricky for players, as they can easily get hit if careless. Try to take it slow and dash only when you have enough time to move away from the obstacle. If you are close to the right side of the screen, try to wait until the snowball appears and then quickly dash to the right to avoid getting hit by it instantly.

The B-Side requires the player to fight with the wind, while performing some tricky jumps, and memorizing patterns for several autoscrollers that may be difficult. In autoscroller rooms, keep in mind that the blocks don't have to fit perfectly into the gaps. If they're less than a block off, they should still fit into the tunnel. Because the rest is rather straightforward to learn, this one mostly relies on getting consistently good at the autoscroller rooms.

The first difficult autoscroller can be found in the middle of the second checkpoint. It's recommended to use as little stamina here as possible. After using the spring, try to jump on the platform so you grab the top of it, then try jumping on the other side without the need to climb back up. There's a significant bit of room for error in this one, but it's recommended to find a strategy without using much stamina. If you happen to start losing stamina while you're about to go to the end, you can quickly climb up and use the platform's momentum when jumping to get enough distance for the last crystal.

The second one can be found in the middle of checkpoint 3, with three small blocks moving to the right. Activate the first two blocks so that they're very close in line, and then grab the last one as soon as possible and drop on the bottom one when there's enough space. Stay on it and wait until you get to the pillar of spinners. Jump, dash over the spinners and if done properly, you should be able to land on the middle block. Remember to crouch in order to not hit the ceiling made out of spinners.

After that, the large moving blocks comprise one of the easier autoscrollers as long as you remember to keep going quickly. As said before, the block doesn't need to fit perfectly into the gaps, so try to not spend too much time aligning it and instead hop on the clouds as soon as possible and grab the block at the very top to get it out of the way. If you don't reach the top block in time and the large block disintegrates, you can also make it back down to the start with some simple maneuvering, which can be very helpful during a Golden Strawberry attempt.

The ending is a place where people may often die if they mess up the last jump. Wait until the block goes off, slowly walk to the very edge of the platform, and dash on the wall to grab it. After that, get the crystal and wait until the block goes off again, and dash right into the heart.

The main problem with this section is the second screen. The autoscroller requires the player to be fast, and it's best to save your stamina when needed by not using the grab button while walljumping. In the last section, most of the level is straightforward but it's recommended to practice the cloud jumps. Try to dash a bit away from the cloud as the wind is pretty strong and you might miss it easily.

This chapter is fairly long in a casual run but there are several skips that can make it a lot quicker when doing a Golden Strawberry run. The first one can be found in the top room of the first checkpoint. When the player stays on the right side of the swap block while it's at the very bottom, they can perform a reversed Hyper Dash followed by a regular straight dash to skip straight to the key room which saves a little bit of time.

The next skip can be found close to the end of the second checkpoint. A player can use the key door skip that's normally required to get the Crystal Heart. Because of that, there's no need to look out for the key which saves some time.

The last skip can be found at the beginning of Search and it's called Search Skip. When the player gets to the platforms with keys under them, they can skip most of this checkpoint with a specific technique. In order to do it, stay on the left side of the platform to the left and perform a Reverse Extended Hyper Dash, followed by a diagonal dash. It's recommended to practice the timing in order to be capable of performing this trick with replenishing your dash as well. If you don't regain your dash, it means you're doing it too early.

The rest of the level is pretty much the same, it's recommended to play through Rescue a few times to avoid getting killed by Seekers. If you throw the crystal against a wall and updash into it, you can reach some higher ground if timed properly. If you dash horizontally into the crystal, you gain more momentum for a short amount of time, allowing yourself to escape situations such as being chased by a Seeker. Try to not rely 100% on one strategy and always have a plan B just in case, as Seekers may be a bit unpredictable at times. If you go to a certain spot slightly too quick or too slow, they may move in a completely different place. Keep that in mind to avoid surprise deaths.

In the second subchapter, the player can save time by only grabbing one of the keys (the right one is easier but slower, the left one is more difficult but quicker), which allows the player to save time by performing a spikejump (avoiding the key needed for the intended strategy).

In the final room of the third subchapter, a reliable route is to immediately do three supers in a row from the right-hand edge of the initial platform, followed by a brief hesitation before an ordinary jump into the gap. The Seeker will reliably stop within reach. Alternatively, the player can avoid the Seeker entirely by performing an ultra with the final two platforms on the left side, giving enough distance to make it to the rightmost platform. An extended hyper from the last platform on the lower right, followed by a dash to grab the side of the platform, also clears the gap.

5C's Golden Strawberry requires the use of many wallbounces, so it may be in the player's best interest to become comfortable with the mechanic. There's not much to this level except just learning how to time specific dashes or bounces.

In the first room, the player may opt to perform a wavedash (or extended hyper) on the starting platform to skip the first wallbounce of the room.

In the second room, a consistent strategy is for the player to align themselves with the center of the Swap Block's path, which will prevent them from missing the correct timing for the wallbounce.

At the beginning of the third room, you can use the bottom route to get to the bubbles without much trouble.

6A's Golden Strawberry is located in the second subchapter, Lake. This means that the player can skip the first subchapter (Start) and go straight to the second subchapter using the menu.

The beginning of Chapter 6 is rather straightforward and doesn't require much practice because the player has a lot of room for error to deal with. In the beginning of Hollows, there's an alternate way to get to the top by doing neutral jumps off of the left wall and then jumping and dashing to the right when at the top of the wall. It's not necessarily faster nor practical, but if a player is comfortable with neutral jumping and afraid of getting crushed by the Kevin Block, they can use this alternative way.

The main difficulty of this chapter is the bossfight. Some of the first rooms can be done easily by trying to hit Badeline as soon as possible. In some of the later screens, it's better to take it slow as she can easily catch you off guard. In the feather rooms, try to wait until she shoots the laser and jump and start flying right away. That way you will have enough time to run away from the attack, and if needed, you can dash away from the feather to a safe spot to avoid getting hit. In the long vertical rooms, you can hit Badeline several times by dashing into her from mid-air. It's recommended to hit her as soon as possible in these sections.

The second phase is generally easier due to it being shorter and giving the player enough time to react. In two sections you have to use a block to momentum jump into her. To perform that, start moving and jump when the block is about to stop, to gain maximum distance. The final room can be easy to mess up, so be sure to learn the timings in it. Similar to the previous rooms, jump into the feather as soon as the laser is gone and fly towards the next safe spot. When you get to the split paths, take the bottom route. It's less risky and it gives you enough time to move away from the beam with this strategy. After that, take your time to perform the next few jumps and pay attention to the laser. Once you get to the cutscene, the berry will be yours.

As a general tip, don't rush in the laser sections if you aren't confident enough. The indicator moves for a few seconds and then stops for a second, allowing you to jump or grab a block out of its way. Use this to dodge the attacks.

Though mostly considered fun to complete conventionally, most players quickly realize that this level can be rather frustrating to get the golden strawberry for as it is very difficult to be consistent with quick and precise movements from the feathers, many bumpers which call for specific angling and a Badeline AI that can change with any slight variations in the player's strategy. It is important to just get a feel for it through practice to minimise the inconsistencies.

A portion of the fifth room can be cleared with an extended hyperdash followed by an up-right dash, to coincide with the cycles it is advised to do this when the bumper which is currently on screen reaches its lowest point. In that room it can be difficult to consistently get past the second last bumper, making sure to land on it at it's lowest point subsequently dashing into the right side of it when Madeline falls to its level will see her though the hole in the crystal wall.

In the fourth room of the "reflection" sub-chapter getting the correct angle on the first bumper can be made easier by extended super dashing at the start of the screen, saving the dash for dashing from the left into the bumper. Though this is not the case with the second bumper, hitting the bumper too high won't be punished as much as a correctional dash can be made to reach it to the end of the screen.

In the sixth room of the "reflection" sub-chapter the need for the kevin block can be removed entirely with an extended superdash saving the dash that needed to be regained using the aforementioned block.

The ninth room of the "reflection" sub-chapter requires a lot of precision near the end, it is one of the levels where the strategy is clear but it just requires a lot of practice, though it is important to pay attention to those last two holes, if to the left of the second last hole then only dash, if to the right then positioning must be corrected towards the left after the dash, that difference makes the last segment feel very inconsistent.

In the second room of the "rock bottom" sub-chapter can be made easier by remembering to dash upwards to reach the first falling block and right to reach the second, grabbing onto the left side and jumping over the top at the appropriate time is easier than trying to avoid them entirely.

In the third room of the "rock bottom" sub-chapter, after the first time Badeline has been touched, the following laser can be dodged by jumping off the falling platform early so she aims it high giving enough time to clear the gauntlet and touch her again before the next laser.

In the fourth room of the "rock bottom" sub-chapter it can be tricky near the end of the second use of the second feather, though cutting as much corners in the path as possible can buy time to navigate over the crystals, to the switch and to the third Badeline touch.

In the fifth room of the "rock bottom" sub-chapter, extended hyperdashing off of the crumbling platform at the end can saving having to use the final bumper which can be tricky with Badeline firing away.

The room marking the start of the "reprieve" sub-chapter can be made slightly easier by dashing up onto the wall next to the first refill gem and jumping out to get it, returning to the wall, this allows the player to simply jump off once the gem has reappeared and hit the left side of the kevin block with a right dash instead of a diagonal one.

In the second room of the "reprieve" sub-chapter, after touching Badeline for a second time the moving wall can be ignored by bouncing on top of the bumper, then dashing into the bumper from the right and dashing up-right over it to Badeline.

In the fourth room of the "reprieve" sub-chapter. it is useful to try and bait out Badeline's laser at a safe space before running through each gauntlet whenever possible, when just entering the room or when grabbing on the side of a wall.

The last room before the rhythm block room that contains the heart is very hard to complete consistently, fortunately it is the room with the least need for consistency as the relatively easy rhythm block room is the only challenge that lies after it. In this room it's better to just attempt it as quickly as possible, practice just clearing the room fast will likely be more reliable than developing a strategy for it. Being methodical often sacrifices focus which is more valuable in this room.

The C-Side is rather straightforward, however it's recommended to practice the ending and try to beat it a few times. Some of the bumpers are easy to miss, especially the very last one that can easily lead to a devastating death next to the heart. In some situations it's more safe to dash into a bumper, as hitting it will replenish your dash anyway, and that way you will be more sure that you will not miss it.

In the first room, you can avoid the second wall bounce by performing a 5-jump off of the top of the  wall bounce block followed immediately by a spikejump from the top of the next wall onto the ending platform. This trick can be used to avoid the second wall bounce, or to save a run after missing it if you can grab the wall bounce block. Sometimes, Madeline will land on the ending platform and the spikejump will not be necessary, but you should jump as soon as you hit the corner anyway, since this will dramatically increase the success rate of the trick and is harmless if Madeline lands on the top.

This has rather straightforward platforming and is the easiest part of the level. In the section with rows or vertical thin walls, you can skip some of them by dashing under them, making this section a little faster. Apart from that there isn't much difference than the casual run.

This one is also pretty straightforward. As long as you're comfortable with momentum, it shouldn't be too bad. In the section with Shields, you can grab on the walls and feel free to use springs to replenish your dashes.

One of the easiest sections if the player is taking it slowly. If you are rushing it too much, you may risk wasting your dash by accident, not getting enough distance to dash through a Dream Block. Although it's not needed in the game, jumping out of them may make certain actions easier and it can save up a dash for later. In the section with shields, a good order is: left, bottom, top, right. After getting the last one to the right, you can use the spring to get your dashes back.

This is generally considered to be the second hardest checkpoint. Due to the cycles, this one requires some patience to avoid falling into a dust bunny or other obstacle.

In the section with the four moving dust bunnies and one Shield in the middle, use the bottom dust bunny as a visual cue. Stay on the line between the bottom blocks, wait until the dust bunny at the bottom goes to the up-left and then goes back to the bottom-right. Be prepared so right after it goes to the bottom-right, do a diagonal dash to the Shield and after a short-ish delay, perform another diagonal dash. It may be tricky to do at first, but with enough practice it becomes very simple.

The next section with a Shield is more open, however, if you're careless, you might dash right into a dust bunny. A good strategy is to do a well spaced diagonal dash followed by a straight dash to the right. If by any means the dust bunny gets in your way, you can dash diagonally, wait for a split second and perform another diagonal dash to the right.

The last tricky section is at the end. There's some leeway with blocks on which you can stand on if you get a bad pattern or don't want to risk dying. Keep in mind that you can stand on them only once, so either don't walk on the entire platform or dash above/below the dust bunny from the air when going from one direction.

This is another straightforward checkpoint, however there are two spots that may kill a player. In the first room with wind, there's a spring on the wall that bounces you towards a small floating platform with a spike on top. You have to dash once after getting bounced by the spring and then let yourself get pushed to the left by the wind, however don't do it immediately or you might fly right into the spike. The second tricky section has snowballs that can kill you if you’re careless. Don't mess around too much with tricks and take your time. After it the rest should be rather simple to do.

This is one of the easiest checkpoints if the player knows how Swap Blocks and momentum work. Keep in mind that momentum can be cruel and if you are dashing from a Swap Block, always jump off of it or you might risk getting pushed off of your destination due to momentum. In the section with the key, you can slide on the left wall and wait until the obstacles move away. It's recommended to keep a dash for the last row of moving blades, as it will save you some struggle.

The hardest part of the entire level lies towards the end. Most of it is rather easy to understand and straightforward, however it's recommended to do a few deathless runs of this checkpoints to gain consistency. Pay extra attention to difficult checkpoints such as 16, 14, 13, 11, 10, 9, and 3. They have some timings that are fairly tight for an A-Side and they may easily kill your run if you’re careless. Pay attention to the wind as it also affects your jumps. If the wind blows down, you jump slightly lower, fall faster, and can’t climb as high. If it's blowing up, Madeline is more floaty and jumps slightly higher.

7B is an extremely long chapter and is considered to be one of the most challenging Golden Strawberries as a result. However, most strategies are straight forward and much of the chapter's difficulty lies in precision. Unfortunately there is not much to be said other than just practice to help with parts like the dreaded flag 13 or while timing bubble exits at 2500M. Due to its sheer length it is heavily advised to do a lot of practice before ever picking up the golden strawberry, even then it is good to take breaks and go to individual rooms that have caused significant trouble.

The third room of the 500M segment is one of the easiest rooms in the game when done correctly, extended hyperdashing off of the first platform will allow the player to just simply dash under then up the block with the first spring on it. bear in mind the last three blocks with the spikes on top do not need to be grabbed as they too can just be dashed under then up.

In the third room of 1500M the cycle can be navigated by leaving as the first dust bunny starts to move from it's low position to its high position, from there immediately go to the bottom left switch and onto the spring board right next to it which should launch Madeline to meet the moving spring board in the middle of it's path, from there dash up onto the wall to the right of the circulating dust bunny and jump for the top right switch when that dust bunny is just past its closest point to said switch, go for the spring board at the bottom left again which should send Madeline towards the bottom switch, follow that with two dashes upwards in order to land on the moving spring board and head to the bottom right switch. grab onto the wall and wait to bounce on the spring board when it is moving towards Madeline AND the dust bunny is moving away. From there dash upwards and grab onto the wall next to the final switch, waiting for the nearby dust bunny to move to its low point to jump for the switch and to the end.

The final room of 1500M seems very difficult to do consistently. One strategy is to dash into the lower spring board as the nearby dust bunny starts moving downwards, dash past the first two moving dust bunnies at a steady pace, wait for the third dust bunny to move towards its high position before dashing past and dash past the fourth as it is sitting at it's low position. Dash past the fifth moving dust bunny before it moves downwards in order to hit the spring board and pass over it as it is moving down. at the last moving dust bunny dash upwards before reaching it and follow with an up-left dash, grabbing onto the wall above the last spring board, from there just wait until any appropriate time to drop onto the spring board so to avoid the dust bunny and dash up towards the end of the segment.

For the 3rd room of 2000M it is important to note that Madeline can go up to the respawn point without the snowballs appearing. From that point hyperdash and follow that with a right dash into the left side of the first pillar, climb up it and the first snowball should go under Madeline. Once the pillar has been climbed repeat the process, hyperdash off, dashing into the side and climbing up. Though the last pillar can be skipped by superdashing over it and dashing to the end. Extended hyper/superdashing isn't needed but can help to save the run if a mistake is made.

The strategy for the last room at 2500M is straight forward however it can be easier to time the exit of the first red bubble by looking at the squid-like eldritch statue in the background and dashing out as the bubble covers its eye.

Flag 17 of 3000M can be skipped by jumping to the left followed by a up-left dash and an upwards dash in order to super wall jump off of the wall, this will send Madeline high enough and far enough left to be able to grab onto the edge at the base of flag 16.

Flag 4 can be skipped as well by extended hypering off the edge followed by two upwards dashes. Same can be said for the first super wall jump of flag 3, extended hyperdashing up before the crystals saving 1 dash for the second super wall jump. This technique also helps skip to the first cloud of the checkpoint.

The first section of the level is more forgiving that it looks. If you memorize how it looks and if you mess up a wallbounce, you can fall down and grab one of the ledges at the bottom and wait for the crystal to reappear. That way you can save yourself from death.

The last section is muscle memory. The beginning is the hardest part as it requires precise timings. Some springs require to be hit as high as possible to pass through tall walls of spinners. The rest of the level is straightforward.

8A's Golden Strawberry is located in the second subchapter, Into the Core. This means that the player can skip the first subchapter (Start) and go straight to the second subchapter using the menu.

A good portion of this chapter is memorizing how patterns work. Close to the beginning, there's a major skip known as Ice Skip. In order to perform it, go to the berry room to the left, come back to the room with fireballs on top and keep running, jump into the crystal, dash upwards and then do two diagonal dashes to the top. Keep in mind that the dashes need to be spaced out a bit in order to fit between the flames. Once learned, the strategy becomes very consistent.

Another room the player may struggle with is the room in the second checkpoint which has rows of ice balls and bumpers around. Try to find a pattern there and don't rush it. Keep it slow and remember that you can bounce around from one row to another. There's a fair amount of dash crystals that will replenish your dash when needed. At the end of the section, it's best to jump from one row to another and grab the switch to progress.

The last section is not particularly difficult but it's best to memorize how everything works in them. Because of time pressure, a player may do a lot of mistakes. Despite the time limit, the player still has a decent amount of time to plan their jumps or other actions. In the cassette room, it's best to jump slowly from platform to platform. Keep your dashes for the fire parts and if you don't rush too much, you should be able to complete it fairly easily.

8B's Golden Strawberry is located in the second subchapter, Into the Core. This means that the player can skip the first subchapter (Start) and go straight to the second subchapter using the menu.

8B's Golden Strawberry is regarded as the second- or third-most difficult golden in the game. It is very important to develop consistent strategies. Rooms with no or little cycles often show clear strategies and are often down to just skill. Though this chapter contains many cycles which can be more consistently bypassed with some of the techniques stated below.

The first room is very chaotic and initially looks daunting to learn. The following pattern will allow all fireballs to be dodged with proper fine tuning of jump height. Wait at the edge and do a short jump as soon as a fireball goes just high enough to jump under, this is to be shortly followed by a up-right dash, jumping immediately as Madeline lands on the next platform and dashing upwards when below the diamond, stay still and fall a dash's distance and follow that with a very quick up-right then right dash on to the next platform, follow that with a quick jump off to the right, collecting the diamond, dashing up right twice and quickly jumping over the last two platforms.

The fourth room can be very easily cleared with the correct timing, if the player starts moving as soon as they enter the room (alternatively they can jump off the solid ground the moment they see an ice ball rise from the spikes at the first column), after jumping off the solid ground and dashing up-right they can just jump across the ice balls, just holding left for the first crystal wall, halting at the second and fourth crystal walls in order to fall around half a dash's distance to keep holding right again and halting at the 3rd crystal wall to dash though it.

The room that marks the start of the "Burning or Freezing" sub-chapter can be the most difficult to learn due to challenges in grip management. It is advised to touch the launching platform when the first fireball touches the bottom wall of crystals (the full cycle involves a full rotation of either of the first two fireballs), Using correct timing to navigate the first two fireballs will allow the final fireball to be accessed by waiting slightly before shooting up the conveyor wall and wall jumping off the protrusion below the fireballs path to the right then off of the left wall.

The third room of the "Burning or Freezing" sub-chapter can be fairly difficult to learn, though it can be cleared as quickly if the player immediately starts going through it right after entering at walking pace, take as few jumps as possible in order to avoid running out of ice balls to jump on.

The fifth room of the "Burning or Freezing" subchapter has a fairly simple solution to learn, jump onto the first conveyor as a fireball brushes on top of it, drop just left of the middle of the second ring of fireballs and right dash out of it onto the next conveyor wall and simply jump from the top of it to the next with no delay after jumping off the 3rd conveyor wall up-right dash in the middle of the 5th ring of fireballs to collect the diamond, heading right until level with the bottom of the final double-sided conveyor wall, after a very short wait shoot up the conveyor wall onto the other side and then immediately shoot up the right side, making the jump with the last dash

The last room of the Sub-chapter is rather difficult. jump off when a fireball of the first ring is pointing left and quickly double up-right dash and drop to the first diamond, repeat that to get the second diamond and then immediately up-right then right dash and drop in to get the third, from there up-right then upwards dash to hit the switch, bounce off of the two ice balls to the left and right of the first ice ring followed by all three from the current left to right of the next. on the next ice ring jump off of the left ice ball and into the switch followed immediately by and upwards then up-right dash to drop into the next diamond with an up-right then right dash, dropping into the second last ring of fireballs, upon hitting the switch there should be an ice ball right under Madeline to bounce off and from there the player can make their way to the end by jumping off the ice balls.

If you are comfortable with neutral jumping, skipping the fire switch can make the first two rooms of "heartbeat" easier. Ignore the switch and start climbing on the left wall, getting to the frozen platforms. Quickly jump off of them and dash towards the crystal, and after that you should be able to dash to the end of the room. The second room is also more straightforward as there's no need to use the switch on the left side, allowing the player to climb the right wall and start bouncing off of the ice balls.

The second room of the "heartbeat" sub-chapter is mostly straight forward, though one thing of note is that it can be easier to reliably get inside the first ring of fire/ice balls by climbing and jumping off of the right wall.

The third room of the "heartbeat" sub-chapter can seem impossible to learn at first, due to it's second half, though there is a strategy that one can use to make it easier. wait at the top of the last conveyor wall until a fireball of the first ring of fireballs points down-right, follow this with 2 up-right dashes to the gem followed by nothing but upwards dashes, though some minor delays and horizontal adjustments should be made after some of the upwards dashes.

The last room before the rhythm blocks can be difficult for people who aren't familiar with magma block momentum. It has a specific pattern that needs to be followed: stay slightly to the right from the middle of the first magma block, then grab the very top of the second block and at the end stay low on the second one, allowing you to use both dashes to get to the edge of the platform. If you miss the timing on the middle block, you can save yourself by either climbing or neutral jumping (the latter is safer though) to the top. It's recommended to practice this room a lot as magma block momentum can be pretty unforgiving.

This C-Side is mostly a matter of getting used to the third section. Try to get used to the momentum based platforms and whenever you have time to wait, use it to max out the time that you will have to go through a part of the section. Hitting switches too early can sometimes end up with certain sections being very hard or impossible to clear. When dashing through the dream blocks, if you do a horizontal dash through the second one followed by a dream jump, you can clear the third dream block while keeping your dash, which can help make the next bumpers section much more consistent.

Farewell's Golden Strawberry is located in the second subchapter, Singular. This means that the player can skip the first subchapter (Start) and go straight to the second subchapter using the menu.

The golden strawberry in Farewell is by far the most difficult one to obtain. Not only are there many extremely difficult rooms that can impede a player's progress, the chapter is also significantly longer than every other chapter in the game. Due to its absurd difficulty, Reddit user DJTom3 is attempting to keep track of everyone who has collected the Farewell Golden Strawberry with verified video proof. As of November 27, 2020, the list currently has 121 verified entries.

Farewell has a large amount of skips that can be used to make the level take less time, however some of them aren't very viable due to the high risk required to pass them.

One of the major skips is the Power Source skip. In order to do it, the player needs to have a double dash, a jellyfish and they have to destroy the Utility Vault. Once it's done, they need to grab the jellyfish with the double dash and go into the hidden top room with the red bubble that leads to a key. The player can skip it by throwing a jellyfish into the tunnel, quickly entering the bubble and updashing into the jellyfish in the right moment to gain enough height to get to the next room. After that they have to perform a rather precise diagonal dash which leads to a hidden room which has fairly simple jumps. This skip can be difficult for some people, but once mastered, it may cut a lot of time for a golden run, especially considering it's fairly early in the level.

In Remembered, it is possible to take a jellyfish to the room with tall falling blocks. It can be used to your advantage by updashing and collecting the refills to gain enough height.

A lot of people seem to prefer using Extended Hypers instead of a Wavedash if they have enough room and they aren't pressured to jump quickly from one platform to another. This may be especially useful for sections such as the infamous autoscroller at the very end of Event Horizon. Using an Extended Hyper usually makes it easier for the player to align themselves to the Wallbounce. In the tutorial room with two Wavedashes followed by a Wallbounce, players can stay on the middle block and perform an Extended Hyper. If done right, they will grab the very right side of the wall, allowing them to jump to the left and use a Wallbounce to get to the top of the platform. This strategy is less risky, because the player doesn't have to deal with momentum from speed tech.

The first autoscroller in Event Horizon can sort of skipped by grabbing the very bottom of the block, allowing you to pass under the wall of spinners. After that, quickly climb up to the pink refill, fall, dash diagonally twice and dash again once you get the green crystal. This strategy allows you to skip the Shields in this room. The second autoscroller room in Event Horizon can be very difficult without visual cues. Play around through this room many times and try to use the spinner walls as a visual cue on when to start your Wavedash/Extended Hyper. It's really hard at first, but after enough practice it becomes muscle memory.

Determination is often considered the hardest checkpoint due to a rather large amount of tricky rooms the player has to pass through. The first problematic room is the moving spring autoscroller. It's possible to wait for a second when activating the platform, quickly updashing towards the crystal and keeping up with the platform. It's a slower but less risky strategy. The short room with one Shield can easily be done by doing an Extended Super towards the item.

After that, starfish cycles appear and in the first room it's recommended to time the jump, so the stars move away when you're about to jump off of the magma block. Pretty much the same thing goes with the falling room, just Extended Hyper so that the stars move away when you're about to get into the tunnel.

The next hard room is the wind room with springs. In the second half, a common strategy is to perform an Extended Super and dash upwards toward the springs. With enough practice, it should be rather consistent, however this room needs to be taken very seriously as it's a common choke point. The Shield room with conveyors can be saved by neutral jumping off of the icy wall in case if you mess up or want to align yourself properly. To get to the next section, hug the Shield Gate, fall and move slightly to the right when you're about to dash. The last room of Determination is mostly just memorizing how the stars move, so they don't get in your way when the wind changes. Remember to not play around too much at the end, as being too slow often can result in Madeline being thrown into the Starfish at the end of this section.

The fourth section of Stubbornness has a rather tricky timing towards the end. Instead of trying to grab the pink wall, try to dash towards the blue block at the right timing, then jump back to the pink block and again jump towards the blue block to the very right. You have to time it properly so the previous blue block doesn't appear right in front of you.

Reconciliation is pretty straightforward for most of the time and there isn't much speedstrats a person can do. In some of the last rooms, there are parts with moving blocks that have different strategies, so try to develop a consistent pattern that suits yourself. In the feather section with a lot of fish scattered around, players can technically skip the feather by either using the fish or Wavedashing off of the block at the bottom. Farewell is pretty much the same as in casual runs and it's recommended to take it slowly as being too hasty may end up with doing mistakes far in the level.

Farewell, unlike other chapters, has a secret room that can only be accessed when the player carries a Golden Berry. It's quite straightforward and it has very few difficult parts, but the player has no opportunity to practice it (unless they're using Debug Mode). There are binoculars that allow the player to check the layout of it, so be sure to look around to see what dangers are around and plan your strategies carefully. You have to be very careful, as failing in this room will take you to the very beginning of the level. If you don't care much about the surprise factor and you want to practice the room, you can use Debug Mode to teleport yourself to the room and mess around with it.

Due to the fact Farewell is very long, it's recommended to do individual runs of each checkpoint to be sure if you're able to complete it without dying. First, try to complete one of each checkpoint without dying, and then try to do two or more of them with as much fails as possible. Consistency is very important for this chapter, and it requires an insane amount of practice and good muscle memory to deal with the length of difficulty of this chapter. Watching someone go for the Golden Strawberry on this level in videos such as this is recommended, as you then see the skips they make, and hopefully, that will help you.

04 - Golden Ridge (Golden Feather Mix)

Gusty Canyon is the third subchapter of Chapter 4: Golden Ridge B-Side in Celeste. The subchapter is a collection of fairly hard rooms without any overarching gimmick unifying them.

Most of the rooms here will feel quite different in how they're played out, hardly overlapping at all. There's only one room with wind, and also the first room to have white clouds in the chapter. A couple rooms will have the player escorting triggered platforms or a guided platform either horizontally or vertically respectively.

This room will have harsh wind blowing to the right, so your decisions will need to be quick. Jump off the ledge and dash straight up into the first green bubble, then launch yourself up-right. Depending on how quick your inputs are, you can do either a straight up dash or a diagonally up-right dash after popping out of the green bubble to make it above the crystal spikes. Then you should fall into the next green bubble, which should be aimed down-right. Dash diagonally up-right after exiting the green bubble and aim the green bubble you arrive at up-left so then climb the wall on the right. Climb a bit and then jump to the right to climb a bit more up the wall you hit before jumping up again. After you fall down to the area below, do a wall jump to the left and then dash to the left to land in a green bubble. Take this straight right and take the next green bubble straight right, then do a straight right dash. Aim the last green bubble up-right and do an up-right dash to climb to the end.

This room seems simple with it only having moving platforms and crystals, but some planning is certainly needed to pass through here. When the first moving platform is about to reach the top, jump to the right and dash diagonally up-right to land on it, then quickly jump to the right and land on the moving platform below. Wait on this moving platform for a bit until the third moving platform is about to reach the top to jump and dash up-right onto it. Jump and move a bit to the right and fall down a bit before dashing up-left to land back on the moving platform under the crystals. Wait a bit, then jump to the right and dash up-right to land on another moving platform. When this moving platform moves up, jump to the right and dash up-left to land back on the moving platform above the crystals. Then, quickly jump to the right and do a diagonal up-right dash below the crystals protruding from the ceiling to land on the last moving platform, then jump again and you've made it to the end.

In this room, there will be three triggered platforms and a long sea of crystals to navigate around with all three of them. Jump onto the first triggered platform, then do a jump and a diagonally up-right dash before you hit the crystals so that you can land back on the triggered platform on the other side of the crystals. Do this again for the next pile of crystals, then crouch down when you land on the triggered platform this time. Stall as much as you can by jumping straight up and dashing straight up to then land on the second triggered platform. After landing, quickly jump and dash straight right and grab the third triggered platform such that the formation has the first and third triggered platforms far ahead of the second one. Climb up the third triggered platform and then fall down with a dash to stall and land on the first triggered platform. Jump to the second triggered platform and climb on top of it, then jump to the right and dash straight right into the third triggered platform and hold onto it for a bit before it disappears. Then either land on the second triggered platform and crouch until it passes all the crystals or grab the right side of it so that you can make it to the end of the room.

This room has some skull binoculars available to preview the room, if needed. There will be a large guided platform that will be used to ascend this large vertical room. Before activating it, though, jump and dash to the white cloud on the right and bounce up to grab the triggered platform above which will block the guided platform's way. After grabbing it, fall down to the guided platform and start going up. Grab the left side of the guided platform and bring it to the left before it crashes into the ledges above, while not hitting yourself into the crystals. Then, climb up the left side of the guided platform and land back on it, then grab the right side and bring it to the right to avoid the ledges on the left. Jump onto the white cloud on the right and bounce up, then dash to the left or dash up-left to make it up above the guided platform. Quickly go to the left and bounce up the white clouds on the left and dash to the triggered platform up above to grab it and move it out of the way before the guided platform hits it. After that, you can make it to the top of the room by just riding up the guided platform.

With only some green bubbles and crystals to maneuver around, this room should be very simple. Take the first green bubble down-right and dash up-right into the next green bubble, then take that one up-right. Move right for a bit before doing another up-right dash when you're able to and arrive at the third green bubble. Aim this one straight up, then do a straight right dash. Land in the final green bubble below, then aim it up-right and do a straight up dash to then jump off the platform above to the right and get over the last pillar of crystals.

20 - Heart of the MountainCassette Room:08 - Core (8-Bit)

Heart of the Mountain is the fourth and final subchapter of Chapter 8: Core in Celeste. The subchapter is composed of two main sections which involve the new and unique rising ice/magma and ice/magma corridors. The first section of the subchapter has rising ice/magma in all of its rooms and the second section has shifting ice/magma corridors which rise up when the Core is hot and descend when the Core is cold. In the final room, Madeline will discover the center of the mountain, filled with new anti-gravity platforms and a vertically wrapping screen, and undo Core's change in dashing. The Crystal Heart of Chapter 8 and the Cassette to unlock Chapter 8's B-Side can both be obtained in this subchapter. The Cassette must be collected to advance forward, and the Crystal Heart must be collected to complete the chapter.

Rising magma will chase the player constantly throughout the first half of this subchapter as they advance upward through the vertically oriented rooms. When a hot/cold switch is flipped, the rising magma will turn into rising ice and function just the same. Some sections here involve parkour by bouncing on ice balls, so knowing that holding down the jump button while landing on them to get a bigger bounce is crucial. In the sixth room of the subchapter, the first set of ice balls above spikes is perfectly lined up such that holding left will bounce Madeline on them consistently. The second set of these ice balls above spikes can be perfectly bounced on by holding right and holding down the jump button for big bounces. At the top of the eighth room of the subchapter, there's a purple orb which will send the player to the second section of the subchapter (though it is possible to make it up without using the purple orb).

In the second section of the subchapter, the rooms will be back to horizontal challenges and magma will surround the top and bottom of the screen, continuing to rise like before. This time, however, setting the Core to cold will cause the ice corridor created to move downward, both from the bottom and from the ceiling. This shifting floor and ceiling section is a bit shorter than the rising magma section, but it requires a bit more creative thinking.

The Cassette room is located directly after the thirteenth room of the subchapter and is forced in your path. This room will also have the shifting ice/magma corridors and plenty of hot/cold switches to be used when needed. There aren't any dash crystals in this room, but no dashes will be required to get to the Cassette. After collecting the Cassette, the bubble that you're put in will take you all the way to the right of the room. Collecting it is required to get over to this side of the room and move onward.

The Crystal Heart of this chapter is found at the very end of the final room. In this final room, your dashes will return to how they were before entering the Core and the gravity will be lighter. The top and bottom of this screen will wrap around to each other and there's nothing in the room to kill you. As you make your way to the end, five different messages will pop up from Madeline's inner thoughts about the room. After collecting the Crystal Heart, the chapter will be completed.

There is 1 Strawberry found in this subchapter.

Found in the seventh room of the subchapter, you can find this final Strawberry hovering to the right of the last launching block of the room. This berry seems very tough to approach as normally you'd either run out of time or stamina and fall into the magma below. There's one key thing you need to do to get this berry easily, though. After being flung from the launching block on the left, use your other dash to get to where the Strawberry floats, and then wall jump up. DON'T hold the climb button when doing this, or else you'll activate the launching block. Instead, just wall jump back and forth and jump above the top of the launching block so you can grab the left side and finish the room, claiming the Strawberry.

08 - Core (Say Goodbye Mix)Final Room:08 - Core (8-Bit)

Heartbeat is the fourth and final subchapter of Chapter 8: Core B-Side in Celeste. The subchapter is split into two sections, with a rising ice/magma section in the first half and an ice/magma corridor section in the second half. At the end of the subchapter is a vertically wrapping room with cassette blocks. The red Crystal Heart to complete the B-Side can be found in this subchapter.

In the first section of this subchapter, rising ice/magma will force quick and precise movements to make it up each room in a timely manner. In the second section, ice/magma corridors will cover large horizontal rooms where the magma rises while the level is hot and ice will descend when the level is cold. In the last room of the chapter, the screen wrapping, low gravity room from the end of the A-Side returns with crystals all over, making it able to kill the player, and without Madeline's thoughts being present.

Run to the right and jump up to then dash diagonally up-right twice to grab the launching block at just above its midpoint, then fling yourself leftward with it. You'll reach a dash crystal, then from here dash straight up and straight left and start climbing the left wall. Jump to the right onto the launching blocks below, continuing to the right on them until you reach the spring on the wall with a dash crystal nearby. After being bounce left, fall a bit and then dash up-left twice to grab another launching block on its upper half. You'll be able to fall into a dash crystal on the right, so once you collect it you should dash straight up and straight left and ride the conveyor wall up to the end of the room.

Walk left and jump up on the ledge, then jump up and dash straight up when the fire balls are on the left and right sides. Move right after flipping the hot/cold switch and bounce up on the ice ball on the right, then bounce on the other ice ball, then touch the right side of the bumper to the left to be bounce to the right. Dash up-right shortly after being bounced to land on an ice ball, then start moving left while bouncing on the ice balls until you can bounce up on the bumper, then move left to be bounced right off of the bumper to the left. Collect the dash crystal, then dash up-right and straight up to flip the hot/cold switch, then move right and ride up the conveyor wall.

Jump to the spring on the left, then dash twice straight to the left and grab the wall. Climb up when a fire ball above just passes to slide up the conveyor wall, then do the same when the first fire ball above passes on the conveyor wall above. Jump to the right and dash up-right twice in order to reach the dash crystal being circled by some fire balls. From here, start dashing straight up while moving left and right accordingly to keep reaching dash crystals above until you reach the transition to the next room.

This room will bring back the mechanics of previous chapters to help the player make it to the top. Jump to the left on the spring and move to the right to land on the traffic light block. Jump up when the traffic light block reaches the top, then dash straight up into the space block. Move to land on the moving platform, then jump and dash straight up to land on the moving platform above while avoiding fire balls. Jump and dash straight up again while avoiding fire balls to land on the white cloud, then do a big bounce up on it while moving to the left, then grab the swap block and climb onto it. Jump to the left to collect a dash crystal, then move back right. Dash straight down onto the swap block and jump as soon as it reaches the top for a big boost up, allowing you to move right and land on the angry platform. Dash straight down onto the angry platform and jump up as soon as it collides with the sides of the gap above, then move left to land on a launching block. Launch straight up to hit a dash crystal, then dash straight up twice to touch the purple orb, taking you to the next section.

After arriving in the next section, go to the right and jump up to the ledge. Jump to the right and dash up-right over the launching block, then grab its right side and fling yourself to the right. Dash up-right into the hot/cold switch, then bounce on top of the bumpers nearby to the right. Touch the right side of the second bumper to be bounced far to the right, where you'll reach a shattering block or some of the floor where a hot/cold switch is nearby. Flip this switch, then make your way to the right to jump onto the launching block to the right, launching yourself to the right to an area with a hot/cold switch. Flip the switch, then walk off and touching the right side of the bumper below to be bounced to the right. Fall down after collecting the dash crystal, then dash up-right and up-left into the right of another bumper which will bounce you to the end of the room.

Jump off the ledge and bounce on ice balls and use a dash to make it to the hot/cold switch and land on the launching block below. Try to aim yourself on the middle of the launching block where you would avoid the fire balls above, then dash up-right into the hot/cold switch. Bounce across the ice balls, with a large bounce to get over the ice barrier, then hit the hot/cold switch near the ice wall and start repeatedly grabbing and releasing the conveyor wall until the magma corridor rises far enough to allow you to go up and finish the room.

Jump to the right onto the small bit of the floor, then jump right again and dash straight right to grab the conveyor wall. Ride up the conveyor wall a bit, then release and move to the left to flip the hot/cold switch and grab the bit of the wall on the left. Wait there a bit until the ice corridor is low enough for you to jump off, fall a bit, then dash up-right into the hot/cold switch to then grab the conveyor wall to the right. Ride up it briefly, then move left and grab the bit of the wall on the left. Jump to the right, flipping the hot/cold switch on the way, and aim to land on the bit of the wall below to the left of the dash crystal. Wall jump to the right and collect the dash crystal, then dash twice to the right and grab the conveyor wall, then you'll reach the end of the room.

This room will not have any ice/magma corridors to worry about, instead it will be filled with a lot of magma barriers which need precise launching to get past. Land a bit to the right of the middle of the launching block below, then launch yourself up and move to the right to get past the first set of magma barriers. You'll then fall down with a launching block to the left and you should try to grab the highest point of this launching block as possible. Launch up from there and dash straight right, then fall down to grab the middle of the last launching block. Launch yourself to the right and dash straight up before colliding with the magma barriers, then climb up the ledge and finish the room.

This will be the cassette block room of the chapter. Like in the A-Side, this final room will return dash controls to normal and have low gravity, with the most notable aspect being that the top and bottom of the screen will wrap around to each other. Make your way across the cassette blocks with simple jumps and dashes, then after the fourth cassette block you should dash straight right twice. Fall to the bottom of the screen to reach the top, then dash straight right twice through the gap of crystals to the right. Dash straight up to stall for a bit, then dash straight right when the blocks turn to blue to reach another dash crystal. Dash straight up twice to collect another dash crystal, then dash right if the pink cassette block to the right disappeared. After this, you'll slowly fall to land on a pink cassette block below, then jump right onto the blue block, then jump right again before the blocks turn to pink so you can bypass the blue cassette block to the right with spikes on it. Fall from the top of the screen to the right to collect the dash crystal, then try to stall a bit by dashing straight up before falling further right and passing the blue cassette block while the blocks are currently pink. After falling from the top, dash straight up to stall, then up-right to reach a dash crystal to the right when the blocks turn to pink. When you collect the dash crystal, dash straight up twice to wrap to the bottom and collect another dash crystal, then dash right or up-right to get on top of the anti-gravity platform. When the blocks turn to pink, jump up and dash straight up, then when the blocks turn to blue, dash straight right. From here, move right until you can touch the Crystal Heart, then dash into it to win the level.

15 - ReflectionCassette Room:06 - Reflection (8-Bit)Crystal Heart Room: 12 - Secret Shrine

Hollows is the third subchapter of Chapter 6: Reflection in Celeste. The subchapter introduces bumpers, and the middle section of the subchapter will have multiple split path sections allowing the player to pick one of two rooms to advance forward. The Crystal Heart of Chapter 6 and the Cassette to unlock Chapter 6's B-Side can both be obtained in this subchapter. There are no story moments found in this subchapter, but in a dead-end room to the right of the first room of the subchapter, Madeline will vent her frustration about being brought down by Badeline.

Starting the subchapter in a large room, the player must get up the right wall by getting a feather to the left of the starting area by breaking a semi-smashable wall with the angry platform. Take the feather up-right and continue right for a few more rooms. Eventually a room with two exits on the right is encountered, leading to different rooms which each lead back into the same exit room. This will happen six times in a row in the subchapter. In general, the upper path for all six splits will be easier than the lower one.

The Crystal Heart of this chapter will be reached by going to the top-left of the first room of the subchapter. At the end of this room before exiting from the top-right, a feather can be seen inside the floor behind a smashable wall. Take this feather even further up to reach an upper area, and then take another feather to the left. A shrine room at the far left can be seen with some colored gems and symbols in the background which you can get closer to by breaking the smashable wall. This section will be a reference to Chapter 1's Crystal Heart and utilizes that same pattern with the bird telegraph. The background symbols represent you needing to do this pattern normally, flipped horizontally, flipped vertically, and flipped both horizontally and vertically.

The dash input patterns you must do to summon the Crystal Heart are as follows:Up, left, down-right, up-right, left, and up-leftUp, right, down-left, up-left, right, and up-rightDown, left, up-right, down-right, left, and down-leftDown, right, up-left, down-left, right, and down-right

The Cassette room is located to the left of the first room of the subchapter, requiring you to break the semi-smashable wall with the angry platform to gain access.

There are no Strawberries found in this subchapter.

Hot and Cold is the third subchapter of Chapter 8: Core in Celeste. The subchapter is mostly just a continuation of the last one with no new mechanics introduced. There are no story moments found in this subchapter.

This subchapter is quite short, consisting of just five required rooms. Most of these rooms will task the player with flipping hot/cold switches midway through the room to change all of the objects to their opposite counterparts and continue the platforming like that. The fourth room of the subchapter is actually quite tricky; it consists of many columns of ice balls, with bumpers and dash crystals found inbetween some. The player should already know about holding down the jump button to get a larger bounce on ice balls, but aside from that the most critical advice is to just play safely and patiently. Waiting atop bumpers for when the time is right is very helpful to make it by.

There are 3 Strawberries found in this subchapter.

At the end of the first room of the subchapter, a transition at the top of the right side can be seen, blocked by a magma barrier. To get past this, continue onward into the next room until you reach the hot/cold switch, then hit it and bounce back to the left on the created ice balls. Make it back to the first room of the subchapter, then dash up to the vertical transition. In the following room, many bumpers are seen above a spike floor and corridors above them are surrounded by ice walls. This Strawberry is in the farthest right of these ice wall corridors. There is a plethora of ways to approach this berry, but the most reliable way is to wall jump off of the floating platform's ice walls to get over to the bumper area without using a dash, then use both of your dashes to reach the Strawberry. You can also barely reach this area by bouncing on the rightmost bumper and wall jumping. From there, bounce on the top-left side of the right bumper and move over to the left safely, returning to the start with either the wall jumping from earlier or a risky bounce on the left side of the leftmost bumper.

Found in the third room of the subchapter, you can find this berry at the end of the room floating at the top. After being bounced by the last bumper in the room, you should be in range to dash straight up into the Strawberry and collect it.

This Strawberry is located above the fourth room of the subchapter, which can be accessed in a small hole not far to the left of the hot/cold switch. It's easily enterable when the room is cold, but this will block off the Strawberry with an ice barrier, forcing you to go left and restart the prior room. The actual way to get this berry won't be so simple, as you need to enter the room while it's hot. Bounce on some ice balls near the hot/cold switch while still having both dashes available to get up to it and change the room the hot. Then, start moving to the left with dashes and stalling properly until there's an opening to get up around any potential fire balls. After that, the berry is there to be collected and you can head to the right to fall to the end of the lower room.

06 - Checking In  08 - Scattered and Lost 

Huge Mess is the second subchapter of Chapter 3: Celestial Resort in Celeste. The subchapter's gimmick is having the player go into 3 different sections of the level which each lead to a platform-rearranging button that clears the material corresponding to the button from the level. The topmost entrance leads to the platform-rearranging button for green books, the entrance below it leads to the platform-rearranging button for purple towels, and the bottommost entrance leads to the platform-rearranging button for brown boxes. Theo can be seen here trying to enter the vents at the start of the purple path. Alongside platform-rearranging buttons, this subchapter also introduces water. There is a Pico-8 machine found in the other entrance on the right side of the huge room in a secret area, which allows you to play Celeste Classic and unlock it permanently on the main menu.

The first room of the subchapter has Madeline cross a bridge of the 3 materials to talk to Mr. Oshiro once again, and then the next room is the main hub for the huge mess. Shimmer blocks return for a more noteworthy use as they block the entrances to the 3 main paths until the player goes to talk to Mr. Oshiro, who is stressing out over the clutter. Madeline then volunteers to help clean up and the shimmer blocks all disappear. After finishing an area, the player must talk to Mr. Oshiro again to remove the shimmer blocks again. The shimmer block for an area that has already been completed won't disappear.

The player is free to go to the 3 paths in any order they wish, however pressing a platform-rearranging button will change the layout of the rooms in the other paths to make some rooms easier and some rooms harder. For an order that minimizes the amount of very hard rooms, take the top (green) path first, then middle (purple), and lastly bottom (brown). This is of course just a recommendation and not the required route.

The green path has fairly simple rooms when done first. In the second room, jump and dash directly right once the moving sludge is going down and repeat this again for the second one. In the fifth room, if you already removed the purple towels, then moving yourself to right to cling onto the wall and climb up it before jumping to the left is needed. The purple path is very safe with all materials intact, but the second room with the brown boxes already removed is made much harder and riskier, so it's best to avoid that. With the brown boxes removed, try to jump and dash right quickly as soon as the moving sludges move up. With the brown boxes, you can ignore the jump and dash right away. In the fifth room on this path, slide down the first wall and then dash right. If you have removed the green books already, then hold onto the wall and jump when the moving sludge moves up and then jump again quickly to climb the wall of purple towels. From here it's recommended to just land on top of the pillars as soon as the moving sludge gets off the floor and get to the bottom when both moving sludges on the left side are moving outward. For the second room in the brown path (2 rooms after the room where you can see the platform-rearranging button), your dash timing must be very good. Dash right to go against when the first moving sludge goes left and then quickly jump on the ledge as the next moving sludge goes up. If the purple towels are still there, you can land on them for safety but if not then just dash right when you pass under the box attached to the ceiling. From there climb up and land on the floor above and go quickly through both moving sludges at the bottom, dashing directly downward if needed.

The Crystal Heart of this chapter can be seen underneath the normal area in the second room of the green path. In order to get the Crystal Heart, you have to find a secret area in the room with the purple towels platform-rearranging button. After hitting this button, there is a secret tunnel found by dashing up where the water is flowing down on the right. Entering this will take you back to previous parts of the section, but with purple towels now gone. Once you make it back to the first room, another secret tunnel must be uncovered which is located in a gap in the ceiling above where Theo's cutscene takes place. This tunnel usually is blocked by purple towels. After entering it, the room after spawns you right next to the Crystal Heart.

The Pico-8 machine can be unlocked by going to the third exit from the top on the right side of the main huge mess hub room. In this room is a letter to the hotel staff, and to the top-left of it is a secret tunnel which will bring you to the machine.

There are 7 Strawberries found in this subchapter.

The third room of the green path will have this Strawberry found hovering near dust bunnies and moving sludges. This berry is deceptively tricky and will take a bit of trial and error. Walk off the ledge at the same time the moving sludge on the right is also going down and touch the Strawberry. Then, quickly dash diagonally up-right and wall jump off the right wall to cling onto the floating platform. Do a jump straight up and either wall jump off the upper area on the right or climb up it to get to safety.

This berry is located in the fifth room of the green path at the bottom-right. To get it, slide down the wall and dash to the right to grab the floating platform. Climb up and jump over the top of the platform to get the Strawberry and then start climbing up the right side of the platform jump over it again and, when your hitbox is inside the dash crystal, dash straight to the left and then dash left again. Finish the room like normally from here to claim the berry.

This Winged Strawberry can be found protected by dust bunnies in the third room of the purple path. To get to this berry is just jumping onto each pillar when the moving sludge is moving up and holding onto the sides until the next one does the same (if green books or brown boxes still remain, those can be stood on instead of clinging to the wall). You need to do a dash at the end to cause the Winged Strawberry to fly up, then jump into it to grab it.

In the fifth room of the purple path is a Strawberry hiding behind some foreground water. This one is simple to get, just walk off the right side of the floating platform, dash directly left, and climb up to finish the room.

A right transition can be found in the second (third if counting the room shared with the platform-rearranging button's room) room of the brown path. In the room you enter is the Strawberry surrounded on all sides with sludge-spawning tiles. What you should do is climb the first pillar of boxes and dash right after jumping from the apex of your climb to land on another set of boxes. Jump and dash from there to the right again, then climb the right wall to collect the berry. When you fall below the set of boxes to the left of the berry, dash directly left to land on the part of the previously stepped on set of boxes. Jump left to the first set of boxes and dash left over the dust bunnies at the beginning to claim the Strawberry.

In the fifth room of the brown path, the path to the Strawberry can be seen on the left. Wall jump up the first section while dodging moving sludges and dash diagonally up-left to avoid touching as many sludge-spawning tiles as possible. Wall jump up the second section to grab the Strawberry, then dash to the right or up-right when falling back down. Then, safely exit the first section and go through the door.

By going back to the first room of the subchapter after pressing any of the platform-rearranging buttons, you can go below where the bridge originally covered and find a room with a Strawberry in it. Just make sure not to go in the water, as dust bunnies are there.

Intervention is the second subchapter of Chapter 2: Old Site in Celeste. The subchapter is primarily focused on a chase sequence in which Badeline follows the player by mimicking their inputs. This subchapter also features the first appearance of key tokens and their key-activated platforms, a recurring set of objects for the game. Additionally, Madeline interacts with Badeline for the first time at the start of the subchapter. The subchapter ends with Madeline using a payphone to answer a call from an unknown character before being confronted once more by Badeline, after which Madeline is consumed by a monster imitating the look of the payphone, causing her to wake up.

After the cutscene at the beginning of the subchapter, every input by the player will be copied by Badeline as she chases behind. Coming into contact with Badeline will result in instant death. Many of the screens feature key tokens, which the player must collect to open the door to the next area. In order to avoid coming into contact with Badeline, however, the player must move across the room without recrossing their path. Since it is very easy to slip up and die by dashing into a space block the wrong way, it is recommended to plan out your moves before you make them, pausing if you need.

The fifth room can be very daunting if you don't know the best way to approach it, so try first dashing straight up the space block for the top key token, then move left and dash left during your descent to get the bottom left token. Approach the right side of the space block and dash diagonally upward to the left and then dash again for the third key token, and quickly get out and dash diagonally upward after touching the final one at the bottom right.

Eventually, Badeline will create two clones, causing the player to be chased by three Badelines in succession. It does not make them faster, but it does make the player more likely to be hit when retracing their previous path. Many find this section challenging, being intimidated by the extra clones. You should sometimes try to hold still for a second and then continue your movement to cause all 3 Badelines to also stop in place, allowing you to easily pass them.

For the last room within the site, the number of clones is increased by two, resulting in five total Badelines chasing the player. The room is also much longer, making it the most difficult section of the subchapter. In this room, there is a small shortcut found by the second small bridge in the room: by dashing left, a tiny tunnel can be entered, skipping a short area of the room. Lower down is another shortcut where you can pass through a small hole of the floor as long as you don't activate one of the falling platforms. This is a lot harder and riskier, though, so you should generally avoid it and go normally.

There are 8 Strawberries found in this subchapter.

Found in the second room of the subchapter, this Strawberry forces you to detour from the exit by going up-right from the space block. For the most consistent collect, dash right into the berry, climb up and wait a bit, then jump back left.

Found in the third room of the subchapter, you can see this Strawberry inside a wall but with no real way to get it. In order to reach this area, you have to dash straight left from the right side of the space block just above the spikes. To make sure Badeline doesn't hit you, grab the berry and cling to the right wall, then dash to the left wall when she approaches and escape like normal.

Found in the sixth room of the subchapter, the berry is located in the top-left corner. Dash up one side of the wall, jump to the other side and grab the Strawberry, and slide down the wall.

From the seventh room in the subchapter, you can notice an opening in the ceiling between 2 walls filled with spikes. Try to get yourself under the second space block in the room, then dash straight up and move left a bit before dashing straight up again. From there you can get into the room above and collect this Strawberry.

Found in the seventh room of the subchapter, this Strawberry is very tricky to get because you can't interact with the falling platform above it or else it will block off the berry or crush you. Try your best to grab onto the walls elevated above spikes and climb them to jump into the pit with the berry, then quickly dash out and finish the room.

Found in the eighth room of the subchapter, you can approach this berry differently depending on if you take the shortcut mentioned earlier. If you do take this shortcut, simply move right from your fall and into the hole where this Strawberry is floating to collect it. If you don't, it's still possible to get this Strawberry. When you approach the large, square-shaped space block, dash through it diagonally up-right and then dash straight up to reach the berry.

From the eleventh room in the subchapter, you can access a screen transition at the top in the same column as the fourth space block from the left. In the room above you have to dash straight up to find the Strawberry and move left and right, dashing through the space block as you descend, to avoid your death.

From the eleventh room in the subchapter, another screen transition can be found in the same column as the fourth space block from the right. It's at the bottom, so to enter it you just have to dash straight down from the top of the space block. In the room below, you can make it to the Strawberry by dashing diagonally up-right from below both space blocks. Once you get to the berry, do the same but mirrored to return.

Into the Core is the second subchapter of Chapter 8: Core in Celeste. The subchapter is the first proper subchapter and introduces Core's main mechanics. The objects introduced in this subchapter are: conveyor walls, fire balls, and launching blocks (and their ice counterparts: ice walls, ice balls, and shattering blocks), ice/magma barriers, hot/cold switches, and hot bumpers. There are no story moments found in this subchapter.

A big focus of this subchapter is going through rooms in their hot form and eventually going backward through them in their cold form after hitting the hot/cold switch found in the ninth room of the subchapter. This is in order to make it to the fifth room of the subchapter while it's set to cold so the player can bounce on ice balls at the top and continue upward. A skip can be performed to make it to the top of this room while it's hot, but this is very difficult and precise. Going right of the fifth room of the subchapter will task the player with some rooms mostly involving getting through without touching the many fire balls until eventually reaching the ninth room, where a hot/cold switch is found in the middle. Going right from there, the player then goes up and back left in a room above that one before landing back at the left side. Then, the player has to go back through all the rooms until the fifth room of the subchapter from right to left and in cold form.

There is 1 Strawberry found in this subchapter (not including the Golden Strawberry which spawns in the first room).

To the left of the fifth room of the subchapter is a room with this Strawberry seen floating far to the left nearby some fire balls. This Strawberry is completely out of reach while the room is hot (though it can technically be obtained with a precise skip) so you'll need to turn the Core to cold and then go back here. The hot bumper above the starting area will have turned into a bumper which can be dashed into diagonally up-right to bounce you over to the ice balls over to the left. Bounce on these carefully to collect the Strawberry, then make your way back right and use your other dash to make it back.

Into the Core is the second subchapter of Chapter 8: Core B-Side in Celeste. The subchapter starts the B-Side proper, bringing back the dash limitation and temperature switching gimmicks unique to the chapter.

Though a few rooms here can be quite challenging to get down, most of them are not too complicated. Recognizing fire ball/ice ball patterns will be important for the first and fourth rooms of the subchapter. The subchapter doesn't have much design that's confusing to the player, with the player's choice of approach being the challenge.

Although it looks incredibly simple, this room filled with rising fire balls can be hard to map out a path for. Watch the second fire ball from the left; just when it passes Madeline's height, jump right and dash diagonally up-right to make it to a disappearing platform. Stand on this disappearing platform for a bit, then do a small jump right when the fire ball on the right goes high enough and dash straight up into the dash crystal. Fall for a bit, then dash diagonally up-right, then fall for a bit again and dash straight right between two fire balls to then fall onto another disappearing platform. Wait a bit before doing a jump to the right to fall into the dash crystal below. Then, dash up-right twice to land on a disappearing platform, then jump to the other disappearing platform on the right and jump right to climb the wall and reach the end.

Jump high off the ledge and wrap yourself back left to grab the launching block above the spikes. Hold on and let it launch you to the conveyor wall to the right. Ride up and let go while holding left to avoid the spikes above, then dash up-right in order to get to the right while avoiding any fire balls. If the timing seems bad, fall back down and try again. Grab the conveyor wall on the right side of the platform and ride up it just a little bit to make it between the magma barriers as you move to the right. Repeat the same process as earlier to get over the next platform with conveyor walls. After riding up the right side and moving to the right, prepare to wrap around and grab the right side of the launching block which will launch you to one last conveyor wall to make it to the end.

Jump off the ledge and land on the right side of the launching block below. This will let you get far to the right while usually being able to avoid the fire balls. If not, you can use a dash to change your timing and get to the right safely. You should aim to grab the upper half of the right side of the other launching block, then launch yourself to the right with a dash, if needed, to make it to the ledge. Hit the dash crystal and flip the hot/cold switch, then you'll need to make your way back left. Jump onto the ice balls with large bounces off of them while moving to the left and dash left or up-left when needed. When you make it to the shattering block at the left side, you can touch the dash crystal and dash straight up twice to then climb to the next room.

This room will have a constant spike floor with pillars of crystals from the top and bottom of the room and columns of ice balls rising up throughout. It can be pretty tricky to find the right way to beat this room, and some methods are harder than others. Standing at the ledge, watch the closest column of ice balls until an ice ball passes Madeline's height. At this point, jump right and dash diagonally up-right to bounce on it while still moving right, then do a bigger bounce off the next ice ball you touch to make it past first set of crystals. Do a big bounce off the next ice ball and a small bounce off the one after as you continue right, maneuvering yourself if needed slightly to make it past the next set of crystals. Do a big bounce off of the fifth ice ball, then when reaching the sixth one, do a big bounce directly upward on two ice balls, then start moving right when bounce on the third one. From here, you should be aligned to move right continuously while holding down the jump button to make it to the end perfectly.

There will be a lot of tight dashes and quick actions needed in this room. You'll need to do a precise straight right dash after jumping off the ledge to grab the shattering block behind a very small gap in a column of crystals. After grabbing it, quickly climb and jump to its right side and do a wall jump to the right off of it before it disappears. Right after, you'll need to do another precise straight right dash and repeat the process. After wall jumping off the next shattering block, grab the next one to the right and jump over it to wall jump off its right side as well, allowing you to touch a dash crystal. After this, you'll have to do another tight dash to the right. You'll be able to grab another shattering block, which you should climb up and jump up from onto another shattering block. From there, jump over and wall jump to the right to then perform one final precise dash to finish the room.

Be very careful not to hit the bumpers in this room in the wrong way or you'll be launched into crystals. Jump onto the first bumper and try to bounce a bit to the right to touch the left side of the next bumper. When this happens, hold no inputs at all and you'll be bounced perfectly left, then perfectly right to begin falling and enter the next section. Dash diagonally up-right and then straight up to then grab and jump across the shattering blocks above and eventually jump into another bumper. By holding no inputs when doing this, you'll be launched exactly as far as you need to be, then you can fall while avoiding a few crystals below and dash twice to the right, hitting a hot/cold switch in the process, and grab the conveyor wall which appears to ride it up to the next subchapter.

The intro car is an inanimate object which can be found alone in a room most commonly associated with the game's Cheat Mode by going left in the Prologue chapter of the game.

The car appears to be a hatchback/station wagon from the mid 1980's-early 1990's, and in fact, its appearance closely resembles that of a 1993 Honda Accord Wagon, but with a shorter, steeper rear end as well as an antenna on its left fender.

Lake is the second subchapter of Chapter 6: Reflection in Celeste. The subchapter is the introduction to the jungle part of Chapter 6. A couple mechanics are introduced here, namely angry platforms and semi-smashable walls. There are no story moments found in this subchapter.

After the events of the last subchapter, Madeline is shot down into this subchapter by landing in a lake at the bottom of the first room of the subchapter (when entering this subchapter from the map, the player spawns on the upper ledge near the Golden Strawberry's location). In this subchapter, feathers return and there are a few rooms filled with crystals to maneuver around using feathers. In the rooms with angry platforms, they will be needed to get up higher in the room to avoid touching any crystals. The first room specifically has a semi-smashable wall introduced to the player which is only broken by bringing the angry platform to the left.

There are no Strawberries found in this subchapter (not including the Golden Strawberry which spawns in the first room).

Lena Raine, also known as Kuraine, and Lena Chappelle[1] is an American-Canadian composer who created the soundtrack for Celeste.

03 - Celestial Resort (Good Karma Mix)

Library is the third subchapter of Chapter 3: Celestial Resort B-Side in Celeste. The subchapter continues on through the resort and has no central theme, much like the previous two subchapters.

All of the rooms in this subchapter will be filled with many moving sludges and, for the most part, they just need good knowledge of cycles to be easily beaten. The second and fourth rooms of the subchapter shake it up a bit, but the other three will be decently long rooms with moving sludges all around walls or just in the air.

This room has moving sludges across all walls here on both sides with a single spring at the start. Walk into the spring as the first moving sludge is at the bottom of the wall to then fall to where the moving sludge moved away from, and wall jump to the right. Then do a dash to the right and climb up until you need to wall jump to the left. Then, quickly jump back right and jump above the wall and collect the dash crystal. Repeat this same timing to make it to the next wall and wall jump it just the same. For the last section, just dash straight to the right into the wall at the right and wait for the last moving sludge to be out of the wall to wall jump off of that wall and make it to the ending ledge.

In this room there are three sets of floating platforms with sludge-spawning tiles on the sides and moving sludges above. Dash straight into the left side of the first platform and grab on. Jump over the platform at the time when both moving sludges are at the edges and grab the right side. Jump to the next floating platform and repeat this cycle, then again for the third one. After this, you'll land on a spring and you can bounce up and dash diagonally up-right and do three wall jumps on the right sides of the three floating platforms on the right, avoiding the dust bunnies.

This room has a bunch of pillars with moving sludges on both sides and knowing the timing for every action is key. Start by wall jumping from the right wall when the moving sludge goes up and then wait on the left wall until it moves back down to wall jump back right. Climb to the top of the pillar and jump over, arriving at the bottom after sliding down the wall a bit where you should wall jump to the right and then dash diagonally up-right to reach the wall above the moving sludge that just went down. Climb up a bit, then jump to the left when you have to, then back right to get over the spikes and into the dash crystal. Dash wherever you need to stay alive and stall with wall jumps back and forth here until you can jump over the right pillar with a dash, then wall jump off the right side of the pillar and dash diagonally up-right to the last floating platform whenever possible. Jump fully to the left after climbing up this to avoid the moving sludge and then jump back right to then do one more wall jump on the right side to finish the room.

This room is very small and just has three layers of fast moving sludges going up and down in the middle. Stand the ledge and do a jump while the moving sludges go up, then dash diagonally down-right just as they reach the top to land in a pocket in the wall. To the left, repeat this process to get even further down but with perhaps a shorter jump. For the last step, you'll need to do a small jump to the right as soon as the moving sludges go up and then quickly dash straight to the right.

This room has some skull binoculars available to preview the room, if needed. The strategy for this room quite simple, as it just involves the player dashing right to get past moving sludges on a very lenient cycle. Try to mix up dash timings with a diagonal dash if it's needed, but otherwise just advancing through the moving sludges with decently timed dashes is all that's needed. For the section near the end with two sets of three moving sludges, align yourself between the two sets vertically, then wait to dash straight to the right when the trio on the right is at the top, then climb up and bounce on the spring to get past one more moving sludge at the end of the room.

This is a list of characters who appear in Celeste. Not all characters have yet been added here, so if you see one who isn't here, feel free to add them!

Madeline is a 21-year-old red-haired trans Canadian woman. She is determined to climb Mount Celeste, despite opposition from others including herself. She is the only playable character in Celeste, apart from a brief minigame.

In the Prologue, the Bird tells Madeline how to move and climb, as well as saving her from a collapsing bridge by teaching her how to dash. Later, in Chapter 6, Madeline gains the ability to dash twice.

Theo is an American man of Brazilian descent. He is also climbing Mount Celeste, though unlike Madeline he isn't aiming for the summit. Compared to her, he is more laid-back and doesn't have the same internal struggles--however, he does have a reason for leaving his job to climb the mountain.

Theo appears time and time again throughout the game as a supporting character. The player is able to talk to him each time and watch Madeline gain a friendship with him.

Badeline, referred to in-game as a Part of Madeline (Part of Me/Part of Her), is an aspect of Madeline's mind that gained her own body in Chapter 2. She plays an antagonistic role throughout much of the story, chasing Madeline and breaking gondolas in hopes of stopping her from climbing the mountain. 

She is playable, but only through the Other Self option in Variant Mode.

Granny is one of the few people to live on Mount Celeste. She has a cabin at the very base of the mountain and appears occasionally to guide Madeline with her knowledge of the mountain, but how she manages to appear everywhere is unknown. Madeline does not initially enjoy how she talks to her. In Farewell, if you look closely at the picture Theo sends Madeline, you could read "Celia & Carlos" written in cursive, stating that her real name is Celia.

Mr. Oshiro is the deceased owner of the - now defunct - Celestial Resort and mostly appears in Chapter 3. When Madeline comes to the resort, he is cordial towards her in hopes of getting her to stay there. Granny describes him as a "lost soul".

The Bird is a blue, crow-like character. The Bird's usual purpose is either to teach the player a new gameplay element in Celeste, or to herald the arrival of the Old Woman (as the Bird is often found near her).

In the Prologue, the Bird first teaches the player how to move and climb, then saves Madeline from falling into a chasm by teaching the player how to dash, allowing Madeline to make it to the other side safely. The Bird later appears near the Old Woman in Chapter 4, Chapter 6, the Epilogue, and Chapter 8, as well as appearing on its own in Chapter 2's B-Side (to teach the player that they can jump out of Dream Blocks), Chapter 7's B-Side (to teach the player how to wallbounce), in Chapter 8's C-Side (to teach the player how to do a hyper), and in  Chapter 9 (to teach the player how to wavedash).

It plays a major role in Chapter 9, where Madeline continually chases after the bird believing it to be part of Granny, and that catching it is the only way to find her.

Alex is Theo's sister, who he describes as a "rockstar" and having a very good sense of what she wants to do in life. She is studying to become a civil rights lawyer while also struggling with issues similar to Madeline; Theo hopes to support her as best as he can. 

If you name Madeline Alex at the beginning of the game, Theo refers to her as Maddy instead.

When Theo mentions Alex's name, the text is red, the same color as when he mentions Madeline's name.

Carlos is Theo's deceased grandfather, who had climbed Celeste Mountain long before his grandson was born. He never talked much about the mountain to Theo, but did leave behind various mementos that Theo and Alex look through. He was friends with Granny at an adult age.

Never referred to by any name, the green-haired person makes their one and only appearance when Madeline tries to call them in her dream. The way they speak to Madeline implies the two of them dated at one point, but have since broken up. They have not spoken to her for a long time in real life.

Madeline's mother only appears once in-game, listening to Madeline over the phone after the latter wakes up from a nightmare. In general, she is aware of what Madeline struggles with and tries to support her, but isn't quite sure how. She knows that Madeline gets depressed and has panic attacks, with a panic attack seen in Chapter 4: Golden Ridge.

Ms. Madeline (Chapter 3)Strawberry (Chapter 9)

Mother (unnamed)Father (unnamed)Sibling (unnamed)

TheoBadeline (Chapter 6)Old Woman (Chapter 6)Mr. Oshiro (Epilogue, presumed)

Green-haired person (Ex, presumed) (Chapter 2)

100M (Celeste Classic)Prologue (Celeste)

Madeline is the main protagonist of Celeste and Celeste Classic. 

Madeline is a short, young Canadian woman with pale skin, brown eyes, and long thick burnt orange hair with one wayward curl. Throughout the events of the game, she wears an aqua snow jacket, dark grey pants, black and dark grey walking boots, and her brown climbing backpack equipped with a red sleeping mat and plastic water bottle. In her official art, she is shown reaching for a strawberry with wings. According to Celeste's developers, Madeline is transgender.[1]

In Celeste Classic, Madeline appears considerably shorter, as well as having more cartoony proportions. In this version, she also has long red hair, pale skin, dark blue eyes, what is presumably a green snow jacket based on her design in the remake, and white boots.

Madeline is shown to be strong-willed and determined yet heavily conflicted, climbing the mountain to spite herself. Her courage is noted by other characters, some even berating her and calling her foolish, warning her to turn back before she gets herself hurt. Still, she presses on, determined to drive out unwanted thoughts from her own mind and take control of her life even when it's pointless and harmful.

There's little we know about Madeline's past.  She comes to Celeste Mountain to challenge herself and to find motivation in her actions by reaching the summit of the mountain, despite both her own problems and the dangers of climbing the Mountain.

Madeline mentally encourages herself to continue on her journey before entering a snowy area. After passing a few challenges with the help of a Bird (who teaches Madeline how to climb), Madeline encounters an Old Woman, who Madeline gets directions to Celeste Mountain from. Before Madeline leaves, the Old Woman warns Madeline that Madeline might not be ready for Celeste Mountain, but Madeline dismisses the Old Woman as crazy and leaves. Immediately afterwards, Madeline tries to cross a bridge which collapses as she runs across it, causing her to begin to fall. However, the Bird teaches Madeline how to dash before she falls, allowing Madeline to reach solid ground. Madeline then encourages herself again as the level ends.

Madeline travels through the titular Forsaken City, finding another hiker, Theo, about halfway through the level. Madeline and Theo converse, and Theo explains that he came to Celeste Mountain to explore and to take pictures, although Madeline avoids explaining why she came to Celeste Mountain. The two also discuss the origins of the Forsaken City, with Madeline explaining that a mega-corporation started building the city, but nobody wanted to live there, although neither of them know why. Madeline also expresses a desire to reach the summit of Celeste Mountain, something that Theo does not seem as interested in doing. Eventually, Madeline returns to climbing Celeste Mountain. At the end of the level, she encounters a memorial (entitled the Celeste Memorial), decides to stop there and make camp for the night, and goes to sleep, thinking that climbing Celeste Mountain might have been a mistake.

Madeline awakes to find that several mysterious changes have occurred to her surroundings: the flames of the campfire that she lit before she went to sleep have turned green, blue lights are descending from the sky, and the text of the Celeste Memorial is now re-arranging itself at random. Madeline then leaves the Celeste Memorial and starts exploring the surrounding area.

After a significant amount of exploring, Madeline encounters a large mirror. As she passes by it, she sees in it a reflection of herself with various features changed (the reflection has purple hair, white skin, and red eyes). Madeline stops after passing by the mirror and walks back over to it, where she again sees this distorted reflection. The reflection then walks over to in front of her, breaks out of the mirror, and runs away. After this occurs, several non-interactive blocks in the level transform into Star Blocks. Using these Star Blocks, Madeline continues to explore.

Near the Celeste Memorial, Madeline explores a previously-inaccessible area, where she finds her reflection from earlier sitting by a dead campfire. The reflection reveals herself to be not Madeline, but Part of Madeline. The two converse; Part of Madeline attempts to convince Madeline that Madeline should stop climbing Celeste Mountain, saying that it's too difficult a task for Madeline to manage. When Madeline insists that she needs to continue climbing Celeste Mountain, Part of Madeline proposes that the two of them go home together, then begins chasing Madeline through the level.

After an intense chase, Part of Madeline stops chasing Madeline and disappears, laughing. Madeline continues running until she encounters a pay-phone, which she observes to be ringing. After some hesitation, Madeline picks up the payphone, and is answered by a green-haired boy, who she has an increasingly confusing conversation with. After revealing that he knows that Madeline is calling from a payphone, the boy insists that Madeline called him. Madeline then reveals to him what has just happened to her over the course of the chapter, but he insists that she's making all of it up. As she tries to reveal more of her experiences to him, she realizes that she's dreaming, which he confirms, then gives her more evidence to believe that she's dreaming. Part of Madeline then appears in front of Madeline, telling Madeline that it's time for her to give up and go home, after which the payphone transforms into a giant monster and eats Madeline.

Madeline wakes up to find herself back at the Celeste Memorial, where everything has returned to normal. Madeline then encounters Theo, and they converse briefly. Madeline then continues until she finds the payphone again; she uses this to call her mother, who tries to help Madeline calm down.

Madeline continues her journey up the mountain, but her path is blocked by the "world renowned" Celestial Resort. The hotel owner, Mr. Oshiro, offers to allow Madeline to stay in the presidential suite, but Madeline isn't interested in staying.

Madeline sees that the hotel is an absolute mess, and helps Mr. Oshiro clean up most of the junk in the hotel, despite Mr. Oshiro insisting that the staff will take care of the situation.

Upon finally arriving at her room, Madeline once again states that she isn't interested in staying. Badeline shows up, and taunts Mr. Oshiro before telling him that Madeline is just helping him to "fuel her twisted ego", angering Mr. Oshiro and causing him to chase Madeline across the roof. Mr. Oshiro eventually calms down at the end and tells Madeline to leave him alone, allowing her to continue her journey up the mountain.

After leaving the Hotel, Madeline encounters the Old Woman on her way. She warns the protagonist about incoming dangers and that it may be a good time to give up. Madeline decides to continue her journey regardless.

At the end of the chapter, Madeline and Theo meet at a gondola leading over a massive ravine. Despite Madeline's doubts about its safety, they decide to ride it. The further they were going, the more impatient and scared Madeline starts to be. Theo realises it and tries to cheer up Madeline by making a selfie with her. Shortly after that, Badeline appears and the gondola starts to malfunction, causing the protagonist to have a panic attack.

Theo tries to calm down her, however Madeline starts to lash out on him for encouraging her to try riding over the ravine. After that, Theo shows her a technique which focuses on imagining a feather that can be kept afloat by slowly breathing in and out. Once the minigame ends, Madeline starts to calm down and they end up passing the deep chasm.

At the end of the gondola ride, Madeline and Theo arrive at the Mirror Temple. Madeline warns Theo that it might be dangerous inside, but he ignores Madeline's warning, and immediately heads in to take pictures. Later on, Madeline discovers that Theo got trapped inside a mirror while attempting to take a mirror selfie.

Partway through this chapter, Madeline finds a large mirror, which she enters in an attempt to find Theo. Inside the mirror realm, she encounters Badeline again, who gives her information about the temple as well as telling her that she deserves all this. She also encounters seekers, which are fish-like monsters which attempt to kill her by dashing into her.

She later finds Theo trapped in a crystal, and subsequently carries him out of the temple.

After the escape, Madeline and Theo decide to rest by a campfire and talk about their reasons to why they've decided to climb the mountain. During the conversation, Madeline explains him that a part of her has escaped from a mirror and keeps haunting her. She also reveals that she's been struggling with anxiety and depression for a very long time, and that climbing the mountain might be a way to challenge herself. She also tries to think about a way to fight against Part of Herself. They later decide to take a selfie as a way to remember the night and go to sleep.

Later, Madeline wakes up to talk with Badeline. She decides that she doesn't need her anymore and sets her free. Badeline, scared about being abandoned, grabs Madeline and causes a panic attack. The protagonist tries to calm herself with the feather technique from before, but it gets cut in half and she falls all the way down into a deep water cavern.

Lost in the depths, Madeline starts to lose hope and is angry at Part of Herself that she caused her to fall all the way down. After wandering around, she finds the Old Woman who thinks she may have given up on her journey. Even though she didn't manage to climb to the summit, she doesn't want to get over the failure. The Old Lady advices her to talk to Badeline and find out what her fears are.

Madeline decides to find Part of Herself and when she manages to do it, she decides to apologise for her behavior and starts encouraging her to work together. Badeline doesn't trust her and they start to fight. Once it's over, Madeline decides to comfort her and they fuse together into one person, gaining an additional dash. They eventually start climbing up end meet their friends on the way.

Once Madeline has reached the summit, they decide to enjoy the looks for a while. Later, they slowly go back to home and meet her friends at home. Shortly after, Mr. Oshiro appears who seemed to be informed by a bird that showed him the way. After that, Madeline decides to bake a pie for them and the result will depend on the amount of strawberries a player has collected.

The Old Woman calls Madeline to meet her at the Core entrance. When the player hasn't collected enough hearts, she tells her that Madeline may not be ready to enter the area. If the heart gate opens, she decides to explore the place in order to find the Heart of the Mountain.

Madeline discovers that Granny has died and apologises to her for not appearing at her funeral. Later she follows the bird around believing that it is part of Granny and will lead Madeline to Granny. Badeline discourages her to proceed and tells her to wake up, but the protagonist assumes that she doesn't want to see Granny again and proceeds to go without her.

After attempting to catch the bird several times, it escapes and Madeline starts to lose hope that she may find the Old Woman again. Badeline appears and tries to calm her down, encouraging her to wake up, that they will face this together. Madeline disagrees and feels guilty that the bird is trapped because of her. They both decide to release the bird from the collapsing dream world.

05 - Mirror Temple (Mirror Magic Mix)

Mirror Temple C-Side is the C-Side of Chapter 5: Mirror Temple in Celeste. This C-Side tasks the player with many precisely timed wall bounces and smart use of swap block momentum.

A good majority of the challenges in this C-Side will revolve around the player doing wall bounces off of small lips in the wall or off of swap blocks. The first room has a very tight pattern required to do the wall bounces needed for making it to the end safely. The second room tests the player on their knowledge of swap block momentum. The final room has red bubbles transporting the player to various parts of the room which each have wall bouncing challenges.

Pairs of swap blocks mostly covered in crystals hover in the air separated by crystals from the ceiling as your only means of getting to the right. The primary method of getting across is to jump to the right and dash straight up at where the right edge of the first swap block would be, then wall bounce to the right but not too far as to not touch the crystals. Fall down and quickly wall jump off the right side of the next swap block, collect the dash crystal, then ready another wall bounce off of the third swap block in the room. Do this wall bounce and repeat this process on the fifth swap block in the room, then after wall jumping to the right off of the last swap block you'll be able to climb to the end. Another method of doing this room is to start with a wavedash into then dashing straight up into the first dash crystal, then diagonally up-right. Do a wall jump to the right off of the third swap block to collect the next dash crystal and dash up-right again, then you can quickly wall jump off of the fifth and then sixth swap blocks' right sides to make it to the end barely. Note that this method forces you to pick up the Golden Strawberry if it has been unlocked and is considered harder if the player is adept at the usual method.

Above your head is a single swap block, and to your right is a wall of crystals past a bottomless pit. The goal here is to jump and dash straight up into the swap block, then hit the jump button as it pushes you right to be launched right and be caught by another swap block on the right side. Line up your vertical dash with the background element of the swap block's path; specifically, dash straight up at the first pair of small bumps from the right (in other words, the fourth set of them to the right of the swap block's starting position) and you should make it to the right side flawlessly.

This room has some skull binoculars available to preview the room, if needed. After entering the first red bubble and going right, you can either wall bounce off of the lip in the wall, followed by a straight right dash into another red bubble, or you can continue right until you need to dash diagonally up-right to avoid some crystals, then you can take the next red bubble up-right and dash up-left out of it into the next red bubble. Take this red bubble down-right, then you need to wall bounce off of the very small platform to make it up to the area above which has a dash crystal. Climb up to the dash crystal, then climb back down a bit before jumping to the right. Make a jump to the right while adjusting yourself if needed to avoid crystals, then line yourself up to do a wall bounce off of the incoming swap block as you pass it. Continue right and fall to the swap block below, which you should quickly wall jump off of to the right to be able to wall bounce on another swap block to the right. After this wall bounce, you'll be able to fall into a red bubble and take it to the right. To the right is a small bit of a platform sticking out to the right which you must dash straight up out of the red bubble to wall bounce off of. There is a spring below in case you miss this area, allowing you to retry it. From this wall bounce, move all your momentum to the left to get into another red bubble, which should be taken straight right. Then, you need to dash straight down before colliding with the crystals and grab a tiny platform on the left side to avoid plummeting into crystals. Wall jump to the right into another red bubble, which will take you to the last area which has many dash crystals and dash switches. Dash up-right into the first dash crystal and dash straight up to hit a dash switch and open the first temple gate. Fall to the right into another dash crystal, then dash up-right into the next one. Dash straight right, then straight up after claiming another dash crystal to hit another dash switch and unlock the second temple gate. Fall to the right after this to collect one more dash crystal, then dash up-right to make it to a safe area on the right where you can jump and dash up to the Crystal Heart to complete the level.

05 - Mirror Temple (Mirror Magic Mix)Final Room05 - Mirror Temple (8-Bit)

Mix Master is the fourth and final subchapter of Chapter 5: Mirror Temple B-Side in Celeste. The subchapter has the player carry around Theo in a crystal, where he must be utilized to finish each room. The red Crystal Heart to complete the B-Side can be found in this subchapter.

Like in the final subchapter of the A-Side, this subchapter entirely revolves around escorting Theo, encased in a crystal, to the end. There isn't a giant eye that Theo must be thrown at to finish the chapter, rather the player just needs him to complete each room as he allows the yellow temple gates at the ends of each room to unlock. This subchapter more rigorously uses Theo's crystal in its challenges, with many of them being designed around using it to complete the room as opposed to the challenges in the A-Side, where the crystal is mostly just a burden.

This room will bring back the crystal, which just needs to be carried to the end of the room to finish it though there's nothing in the room to hurt you.

This will be a decently lengthy room which has Seekers be a threat throughout. Walk forward past the first barrier with Theo in hand and jump over the Seeker as it pursues you. Continue to the right quickly, bouncing on the spring and moving right a bit in the air before throwing the crystal to the right to land in on another spring to the right of the pillar. At this point, wait for the Seeker to chase you again and bounce on its head to neutralize it for a bit. Climb the wall and dash to the small platform with the spring to grab the crystal again and throw it to the right immediately. Dash straight to the right and dash down on the floor to press the dash switch. Start climbing up the next wall quickly before the Seeker arrives and dash over it, then bring Theo through the barrier. Do wall jumps with the crystal in hand up the corridor above and throw the crystal to the right before doing an up-right dash to get over the Seeker and land at the end of the room with Theo by your side to allow you to finish. One secret tip for this room is, at the start, to throw Theo's crystal and bait the Seeker to charge at you as you stand next to the barrier. Jump over it and dash to the right and, if timed right, the temple gate will close behind you and crush the Seeker, which makes the room much easier.

There will be four small segments in this room, each being small areas with Seekers in them which have a dash switch to be pressed. For the first one, you can just throw Theo's crystal into the arena and jump and dash above the Seeker when it charges at you, then dash into the dash switch and carry the crystal into the next section. Throw Theo off to the side for a bit and bait the Seeker into charging at you at the start of the section, then make your way to the spring to bounce high enough to dash straight up into the dash switch above, then fall in a way that you can either dodge the Seeker or land on its head, then grab Theo's crystal and carry it into the next section. A very simple way to complete this section is by walking in a bit, then turning left and jumping to then throw the crystal at the dash switch. From there, dash away from the Seeker in whichever direction is desirable and go back for the crystal to carry it out of the section. For this last section, you have to bring Theo's crystal to the right of the room and do a wall jump off the temple gate to then throw the Theo through the section above to the right which is guarded by many crystals. This will allow him to land on the last dash switch and open the temple gate.

This room, deemed "clearly impossible" by Theo, is actually quite simple. Hold Theo at the ledge and jump to the right a bit and throw the crystal, then land back on the ledge. After this jump to the right again and dash straight right into the first dash crystal, then dash straight up and grab Theo's crystal to immediately throw it to the right again. Fall to the right and land in another dash crystal, dash straight right into another dash crystal, dash again now up-right and grab Theo to then throw him again and land him at the end of the room, and use the last dash crystal to dash straight to the right and climb the wall.

This will be the cassette block room of the chapter. It can actually be quite tricky to figure this one out relative to the other cassette block rooms as you'll need to incorporate Theo's crystal into your movement. Jump onto the first block when it turns to blue and jump and throw the crystal to the right, then dash up-right onto the pink block. Grab Theo as he bounces on the springs and land on the blue block above, then walk off to the pink block below shortly after. Jump to the right and throw Theo, then dash up-right to allow both you and Theo's crystal to safely land on a swap block which arrives at that location. The swap block will then take you to the right and allow you to open one last temple gate with Theo's crystal and either throw him into the Crystal Heart or dash into it yourself to win the level.

Celeste contains a large array of unique moves and techniques, which range from simple inputs to gain speed to advanced jumps that can allow you to skip large sections of levels.

Note: Most of the moves don't have official names, so for simplicity, they're going to be called by the names the community came up with. However, since some names are up for debate (ex. Wallbounce, Super-Walljump, Master Walljump, etc.) this page is going to call them by their most popular name.

A reverse super in Reflection C-Side

A super is performed by dashing on the ground followed by a jump, which results in a long-distanced jump.

A reverse super is a super in the opposite direction, which can be done by switching directions when jumping (ex. dash right, then jump left). 

A super travels the same distance as simply jumping and then dashing, so supers tend to not provide much benefit to the player outside of speedrunning.

An Extended Reverse Super used to skip a large part of Mirror Temple A's 4th subchapter

After dashing, Madeline's hair turns white for a small window before it becomes red again. If you do a super and jump while Madeline's hair is white, you can do a super and retain your dash, which is called an extended super. The ability to retain a dash after a super can allow the player to cross larger gaps than a normal super could.

The player can also reverse an extended super to do a reverse extended super, which can allow the player to re-position themselves or do an extended super off of a wall next to the ground. Notably, a reverse extended super is used in certain speedruns to skip a large part of Mirror Temple's A-side's 4th subchapter, forgoing the need to collect the sub-chapter's keys.

A hyper is performed by dashing down diagonally and then jumping before the dash ends. Hypers function much like supers, but give the player an increase in speed that is significantly greater than either a super or dash. Madeline travels lower when performing a hyper, allowing her to jump through tighter gaps than a super. However, this lower jump height may cause the player to hit obstacles that are low to the ground if they are not careful. This move is first introduced to the player in Chapter 8's C-side, but is only used in two sections (once at the beginning of the level and once again at the end of the final room).

As with supers, it is possible to do a reverse hyper by switching directions when jumping, although this has limited practical value.

An extended hyper functions identically to an extended super in that Madeline retains her ability to dash after jumping. This move is performed by doing a hyper, but only jumping after Madeline's hair becomes red again. An extended hyper can allow you to cross even larger gaps and is used in many cases in speedrunning to go extremely fast, as there is no known limit to Madeline's downward diagonal speed, meaning that you could do multiple hypers/wavedashes in a row, which would allow you to gain massive amounts of speed.

Extended hypers can be reversed to do a reverse extended hyper. Notably, a reverse extended hyper is used in speedruns of the Chapter 5 A-side to perform the YEET, which allows speedrunners to skip through two otherwise slow rooms in a short amount of time.

Wavedash from right -> left, and extended hyper left -> right

A wavedash can be performed by dashing down diagonally after a jump and then jumping almost instantly after landing. While a wavedash is similar in function to an extended hyper, it can be used in different scenarios. Unlike an extended hyper, it is possible to perform a wavedash on one single tile, while an extended hyper requires either more space or an adjacent wall to be performed. Wavedashes can also be reversed, much like extended hypers. Wavedashes are formally introduced to the player in Chapter 9's 5th sub-chapter, Event Horizon.

The relatively high technical difficulty of the wavedash may result in two common issues: the wavedash not performing, and the failure to retain the dash afterwards. The former is a result of the player initiating the downward diagonal dash too high off the ground. In this case, the dash has already finished once the player has touched the ground, thus resulting in a failure to perform the wavedash. The second problem, in which the wavedash is performed but without the retaining of the dash, is a result of the player initiating the downward diagonal dash too low off the ground. By jumping before Madeline's hair turns white, the dash is unable to be reset.

A wallbounce occurs when the player dashes upwards when adjacent to a wall and then jumps during the dash. The jump can be done at any time up until the end of the dash, causing the wallbounce to travel higher the longer the jump is delayed. Wallbounces allow the player to travel vertically more quickly than a dash or wallkick, and can be used in multiple levels to complete them faster. This technique is taught and used in Chapter 7's B-Side, as well as Chapter 9, and is required to complete the C-Sides (excluding 1C, 2C, and 8C) and Chapter 9.

A reverse hyper transitioned into a downwards ultra and a bunny hop, in Chapter 6's 5th subchapter.

An ultra is an oblique dash that occurs when performing a diagonal-down dash when already moving with a high horizontal velocity. This causes the player to maintain their speed and get a speed boost upon hitting the ground. Using a diagonal-up dash instead results in an "upwards ultra", which has the key difference that the momentum ends when the dash does — the momentum does not carry.

A demodash performed in Chapter 3's Elevator Shaft subchapter.

A demodash (named after its discoverer, DemoJameson) is performed by dashing down, then immediately (within 4 frames or 0.066 seconds, 0.068 seconds of in-game time) releasing the down key. This causes Madeline to dash horizontally while keeping a crouched state at the same time. Being crouched reduces the size of the player's hitbox, allowing them to fit through gaps that could not be travelled through under normal circumstances. If one not only releases the down key, but also inputs other directions, a demodash can be done upwards or diagonally up.

Since v1.4.0.0, the keybind "Crouch Dash" simplifies this move. With this keybind, a demodash can be performed by holding the key of the desired direction and pressing Crouch Dash.

Attempting to perform a super out of a demodash will result in a hyper instead because the game checks for whether Madeline is crouched to determine which to perform. This hyper is referred to as a demohyper. Demohypers are slightly faster than ordinary hypers, because the player has greater horizontal velocity before it begins due to being in a horizontal dash rather than a diagonal one.

Celeste has a "coyote time" mechanic where the player can jump in the air for 5 frames after falling off a platform. This can be used to obtain the maximum possible distance from an extended hyper. Coyote time also affects the jump used to trigger a hyper, allowing one to start the hyper from midair from a short distance beyond a platform.

Reverse hyper into bunnyhop into a cornerboost, which launches Madeline through the next room.

A cornerboost can be performed if the player climb-jumps off the top 5-7 pixels of a wall (usually 7 if the player is moving slowly, 5 if the player is moving quickly) with the right timing, this allows the player to maintain any previous horizontal momentum after the climb-jump.

A player doing a neutral jump. Note that it does not use stamina.

A neutral jump occurs when the player jumps away from a wall without inputting a direction or holding down the grab button, which causes the player to jump away from the wall by a smaller distance than a wallkick. This can allow the player to move back to the wall at the peak of the neutral jump, resulting in a higher vertical position. Unlike a climb-jump however, neutral jumping does not use up stamina, but nevertheless allows the player to travel vertically up the wall. Neutral jumps can also allow the player to climb walls when out of stamina or if the wall cannot be traversed with climb-jumps.

Wall spikejump in Chapter 3's Huge Mess.

A spikejump is a wallkick or neutral jump performed on a corner covered with spikes. This is possible because spikes do not harm Madeline when she is moving in the same direction they are pointing. As long as Madeline is moving in the same direction as the spikes, she can wall kick off of the wall behind the spikes. Spikejumps are often used in speedruns, most notably to skip a large part of the Chapter 5 B-Side's 2nd subchapter.

Spikejumps are also possible off of downward-facing corners. This is somewhat easier than a standard spikejump because it exploits the "ceiling pop" mechanic in which, when hitting the edge of a wall while moving upwards, the game will move Madeline left or right by up to 5 pixels in an attempt to avoid the wall.

Although not a move of its own, the exploiting of screen transitions is taught to the player by the game indirectly when figuring out how to get Chapter 2's Crystal Heart. When moving between screens, the game will reset the player's dash, allowing for unintended uses in many places to skip parts of a room, such as the first room with a key in Chapter 3's A-Side.

Dead, but now in the form of a ghost

Mr. Oshiro is a resident at Celeste Mountain and one of the characters Madeline meets in her climb. He first appears within the Celestial Resort in Chapter 3 when Madeline rings a bell in the hotel's reception, and last appears in the epilogue. He is the long deceased owner of the Celestial Resort and runs the hotel independently, despite the evident lack of customers.

According to the Old Woman, the reason he stays at the hotel is that he is a lost soul, and the hotel is "much more than just a hotel to him", as evident by documents found in the level. In the epilogue, Mr. Oshiro opens up and leaves the hotel to attend the "party" with everyone to have some homemade strawberry pie.

Although his form can be changed, Mr. Oshiro usually appears as a Japanese man with a big pink nose and dark-green hair. He wears a green sweater, black pants, a brown belt, and brown shoes. In his enraged form, his head is greatly enlarged, his skin turns white, he gains four fangs (two on the top, two on the bottom), red eyes, and pointed ears.

After his mysterious death decades prior to the events of the game,[4] Mr. Oshiro still resides in the Celestial Resort as a lost spirit without realizing his demise, now disillusioned as seen in his monologues throughout the chapter. He also unknowingly began spawning living sludge manifested from his doubts and fears, called 'Dustbunnies', as evident from the scene before reaching the presidential suite where Mr. Oshiro was more doubtful of his own abilities as the resort caretaker after Madeline helped clean up the resort. His belief that the resort was still in operation was challenged when the other Part of Madeline appeared and directly confronted him, resulting in Mr. Oshiro chasing Madeline out of the hotel.

There are a total of 61 different songs in Celeste. 34 are the main background pieces for the story, 8 are B-Side remixes, 1 is a bonus track used in development that doesn't appear in the game at all, and the other 18 are pieces that appear in-game, but not prominently. Lena Raine composed all thirty-four of the main background pieces, the Summit B-Side remix, and the bonus track, while the B-Sides are each composed by a different guest artist and the bonus tracks are each composed by Lena Raine, Kevin Regamey, or both.

This is a glossary of all object names used to refer to objects that appear in Celeste, where an object is defined as an item that the player can touch or otherwise interact with to change the game (e.g. walls do not count as an object, but spikes do.) Note that this glossary is not yet complete and may not list all occurrences or names of any given object.

These are brown platforms with blue-and-brown borders on one or more sides of the platform and a face on the front of the platform. The face will have its eyes closed and its tongue sticking out in a peaceful or sleeping expression by default. However, if the player dashes against one of the blue-and-brown bordered sides, the eyes will light up blue, the mouth will contort into an angry expression, and the platform will charge in the direction of the side that the player dashed against (e.g. if it had a bordered left side and the player dashed against its left side, it would charge left). This platform will continue to charge, destroying any Semi-Smashable Walls in front of it in the process, until it collides with a normal wall, at which point the platform will resume its peaceful expression and slowly drift back to its starting position. The player may provoke it again during this process or while it is actively charging, causing it to instead charge in a different direction. No matter what the player does, however, once the player has finished dashing against it as many times as they are going to do so, it will retrace its steps to its initial position. These can be found in Chapter 6, Chapter 8, and Chapter 9. Names for this object include Angry Platforms, Kevin Blocks, and Kevins.

Floating platforms which hover in the air. They are weighed down slightly when stood on or grabbed. These can be found at the end of the A-Side and B-Side of Chapter 8.

These appear as transparent clouds filled with falling sparkles. Barriers cause Seekers to crash and bounce into them, preventing the Seeker from moving past it. In addition, Barriers will cause Jellyfish to immediately disappear upon contact, regardless of whether Madeline is holding it. Aside from their function on Seekers and Jellyfish, Barriers function as void space. Barriers are found in Chapter 5 and Chapter 9.

Spinning squares with two silver points on each side that kill the player on contact. Blades move back and forth between two points as well as spinning. These can be found in Chapter 5 and Chapter 7.

Blue torches that are off by default, but will light up if the player touches them, leading the torch to permanently give off a circle of light that will illuminate otherwise dark areas. Blue Torches can be found in Chapter 5.

Circular brown platforms with blue-and-brown borders, serious-looking faces with blue eyes, and with blue electricity sparkling around them. Upon touching one of them, the player will be bounced in the direction that they touched (e.g. if the player touched the top of the platform, the player will be bounced upwards). Also, upon touch, the platform will shrink temporarily before expanding to its normal size. While one of these platforms are shrunk, the player can pass right through it without being bounced. When the player horizontally dashes to a Bumper and before reaching it, faces the other direction, you would be launched with double distance and speed. When Hot/Cold Switches are flipped, these objects turn into Hot Bumpers. These objects can be found in Chapter 6 and Chapter 8. Names for this object include Bumpers and Sparkly Platforms.

Platforms in either blue or pink that appear and disappear in a certain predictable pattern: all blue platforms of this type appear at once, then disappear just as the pink ones appear, which then disappear to let the blue ones appear, and so on. These platforms can be found in all chapters, but only at the ends of B-Sides and in rooms of normal chapters that include B-Side Cassette Tapes, with these platforms not appearing at all in C-Sides.

These platforms make a reappearance in Chapter 9, but now with yellow and green platforms along with the blue and pink platforms. They can cycle between all 4 colors or only 3 colors; for a four-color cycle, it starts with blue, then goes to pink, then yellow, then green before going back to blue again, while a 3-color cycle omits the green platforms (i.e. blue, pink, yellow, repeat). Names for this object include Alternating Platforms, Cassette Blocks, and Rhythm Blocks.

Rectangular brackets with a number (counting the number of Checkpoints until the end of the chapter) and a flag outline that fills in when the player passes the bracket. Touching the bracket and causing the flag to light up will cause the player to respawn by the checkpoint when they die. Checkpoints can only be found in Chapter 7 A-Side and Chapter 7 B-Side's 3000 M sub-chapters, as players respawn at the edge of a screen in most other cases (or, in rare cases, after passing a certain unmarked point partway through a screen).

Small, roughly circular pieces of Sludge that circle a normal platform or a Falling Platform. They will continue circling the platform in question, even if it is an activated Falling Platform. Circling Sludge is almost identical to Moving Sludge except for the differences in trajectory (Moving Sludge moves back and forth between two points, while Circling Sludge moves in a circle). Circling Sludge can be found in Chapter 3 and Chapter 7.

A bridge that collapses (mostly from front to back) on a set timer, forcing the player to either run across it at a certain speed (jumping or dashing when necessary) or fall off the screen. Only one exists in the game, and it is exclusive to the prologue.

Collectibles are items scattered throughout the game that generally require an extra challenge in order to obtain them. There are three types: Strawberries, Hearts, and Cassette Tapes. See Collectibles for more information.

Walls with a conveyor-belt-like coating on one side. When the coating is grabbed, it will send the player rapidly upwards, launching them off the top and/or allowing the player to use the upwards momentum to jump very high. In order to gain maximum momentum the player has to jump just as Madeline hits the blinking red light at the top of the conveyor wall. These replace Ice Walls in Chapter 8 while Hot/Cold Switches are flipped to hot. These can be found in Chapter 8 and Chapter 9.

Red, curled up spikes which resemble tentacles that kill the player on touch. These will line up walls and occasionally floors in groups. They function just the same as Spikes. These can be found in Chapter 5.

These are virtually identical to Spikes, but are somewhat wider, are blue instead of white (magenta in Chapter 6), and look somewhat like sai. Aside from that, their behavior is the same: they kill on touch and are even usually found in rows. These can be found in Chapter 4, Chapter 6, and Chapter 7.

Spiky, brightly-colored crystals that protrude from walls or platforms. Like Spikes, they kill the player on touch and are usually found in rows. They can be found in different chapters in different colors, including azure and magenta. Crystals can be found in Chapter 4 (azure), Chapter 5 (red), Chapter 6 (magenta), Chapter 7 (magenta, azure, red, and violet), Chapter 8 (azure and red), and Chapter 9 (color shifting).

Green diamond-shaped crystals that replenish the player's dash when one touches them. Upon being touched, these gems will also disappear for a short period of time before re-appearing and allowing itself to be used again. These can be found in all chapters except for the prologue and the epilogue. Names for this object include Dash Crystals, Diamonds, Gems, and Refill Gems.

Dark gray buttons with green lights that depress when the player dashes against them, or when crystallized Theo is thrown at it opening the Temple Gate that the Dash Switch is paired with. They can also be activated by throwing a Jellyfish at them. These can be found in Chapter 5, Chapter 7, and Chapter 9.

Disappearing Platforms look like a series of stones attached together in a manner resembling a very small bridge. After a short time of standing on them or holding onto them, these platforms disappear, only reappearing after a short period of time has elapsed. When the player is standing on it and jumps the Platform instantly disappear rushing the process. If the player holds the Disappearing Platform it will break on a set time regardless if the player gets on top of it and jumps. These can be found in all chapters.

Pink gems which appear as two conjoined single diamonds. They grant Madeline two dashes upon contact, even in levels where double dash is not otherwise possible. Double dash gained from these gems can be carried between screens. Not all Double Diamonds respawn. Names for this object include Double Dash Crystals, Double Diamonds, Double Gems, Pink Diamonds, Pink Gems. These are exclusive to Chapter 9.

Blocks that fall after a short time of standing on them, holding onto them, or hitting an Angry Platform into them. Falling Platforms may look like any other platform in the game and may or may not have spikes attached to them. Falling Platforms can be found in all chapters.

Large golden feathers that turn the player into a golden comet-like object on touch, allowing the player to freely fly around the screen until either a time limit expires or the player dashes, at which point the player will be restored to their normal form. When the time limit is about to expire, the comet will rapidly flash between red and gold before transforming the player into their normal form. Almost immediately afterwards (or almost immediately after the time limit would expire, if the player leaves the Feather by dashing), the Feather will reappear in its original location. These can be found in Chapter 6, Chapter 7, Chapter 8, and Chapter 9.

Lethal, flaming balls that come either in infinite lines, continually moving on a set path, or in circles, constantly rotating along the circular path. These replace Ice Balls in Chapter 8 when Hot/Cold Switches are flipped to hot.

Green bubbles that, upon touch, launch the player in whatever direction corresponds with the direction keys that the player is holding down, recharging the player's dash. Green Bubbles will disappear after launching the player in a given direction, but will reappear very shortly after going so. These can be found in Chapter 4, Chapter 7, and Chapter 9.

Dark purple platforms with an arrow pointing in a certain direction and one or two tabs (one located on top if the arrow points left or right, two—one located on the left side and one located on the right side—if the arrow points up or down). Upon being stepped on or hung onto, the Guided Platform will start moving in the direction that the arrow is pointing in; however, by standing on the tab (if on top) or holding onto the tab (if on one of the sides), the player can press an arrow key to move the platform in one of the two directions perpendicular to the one that the Guided Platform is moving in. For example, if the platform is moving upwards and the player hangs onto the tab on the left side and presses the left or right keys, the platform will move left or right, respectively. If a Guided Platform collides with another platform for more than a split second, the Guided Platform will disintegrate, reappearing in its original spot after a short period of time. Guided Platforms may also have Crystal Spikes on top of them. Guided Platforms can be found in Chapter 4, Chapter 7, and Chapter 9.

Circular red platforms with gray, lethal spikes sticking off in all directions, smiling or angry-looking faces with red eyes, and with orange electricity sparkling around them. These objects can be found in Chapter 8, replacing Bumpers when Hot/Cold Switches are flipped to hot. Names for this object include Angry Bumpers, Hot Bumpers, and Hot Platforms.

Heart shaped switches that toggle the environment between hot and cold. When flipped from cold to hot, Bumpers become Hot Bumpers; Shattering Blocks become Launching Blocks; Ice Walls become Conveyor Walls; Ice Balls become Fire Balls; the ice in Rising Ice/Magma becomes magma; and the ice in Ice/Magma Corridors turns to magma and rises instead of descends. When flipped from hot to cold, these changes reverse. These switches are exclusive to Chapter 8. Names for this object include Core Switches, Core Flip Switches, and Hot/Cold Switches.

Blue balls of ice with spikes along the bottom and sides, but not along the top. These balls come either in infinite lines, continually moving on a set path, or in circles, constantly rotating along the circular path. If the player touches the spikes, the player will die, but touching the non-lethal top will bounce the player into the air (increased by jumping) and shattering the Ice Ball used in this way. These replace Fire Balls in Chapter 8 while Hot/Cold Switches are flipped to cold.

Walls with a blue coating on one side. These walls cannot be grabbed, making vertical ascension up the wall impossible by climbing (though other methods are still usable, such as neutral wall jumping). These replace Conveyor Walls in Chapter 8 while Hot/Cold Switches are flipped to cold.

Blocks of ice/magma that kill the player upon contact. They'll appear and disappear depending on whether Hot/Cold Switches are toggled to hot or cold (with ice appearing when cold and disappearing when hot, and magma doing the opposite). These mainly serve as a means to gate paths depending on temperature, in a similar role of the Shimmer Blocks in Chapter 3. Ice/Magma Barriers are exclusive to Chapter 8.

Rooms that have ice/magma along the top and bottom which kill on contact. While Hot/Cold Switches are flipped to hot, the ice turns to magma and slowly rises up; while cold, the magma turns to ice and slowly descends. As such, the ice or magma threatens to swamp the room if either hot or cold are maintained for too long, forcing the player to frequently switch back and forth between the two in order to pass through one of these Corridors. Upon entering the room or respawning, the magma or ice will appear at short distances from the top and bottom of the screen and will only start moving once the player moves. These rooms are exclusive to Chapter 8.

These are large blue jellyfish which can be grabbed to increase hangtime. Players can take hold of the jellyfish by pressing and holding the climb button. While holding, the up and down buttons can be used to fall more slowly or more quickly than default falling speed. By default, jellyfish are thrown whichever direction the player is facing when released. The down button can be held in order to release jellyfish in place. Normal movement, jumping, and wall jumping are all possible while holding a jellyfish, while they must be released in order for Madeline to dash. Several obstacles in Chapter 9 require Madeline to release, then dash, then grab again, all while mid-air. This dash in this manuever can be either directly upward or diagonally upward, and will result in a significant increase in height, even above the initial position. Jellyfish are buoyant enough that vertical walls can be slowly climbed by continuously wall jumping away from the wall and returning to it. Holding jellyfish does not consume stamina, even mid-air. Jellyfish do not replenish dashes. Jellyfish will naturally float downward after release. Jellyfish are not affected by most surfaces, such as spikes. A notable exception is that of Barriers, which instantly destroy jellyfish upon contact. Jellyfish do not respawn unless Madeline dies or leaves the stage. Jellyfish can be carried between stages. Jellyfish are exclusive to Chapter 9. Names for this object include Jellyfish, Jellyfish Gliders, and Jellyfish Parachutes.

Golden keys that, upon touch, will follow the player until the player nears a Lock, at which point the Key will fly over to the Lock and open it, both destroying itself and opening the Lock in the process. Keys can be found in Chapter 3, Chapter 5, Chapter 7, and Chapter 9.

Dark red blocks with an orange diamond in the center. Upon being grabbed or landed on, the block will recoil, then explode, launching the player in the direction that they where touching it from before respawning shortly afterwords. This behavior is similar to the behavior of the Pink Clouds, but with more control, as the player can both increase and fine-tune the launch distance and direction by moving around the block and choosing when to jump off. These replace Shattering Blocks in Chapter 8 while Hot/Cold Switches are flipped to hot.

Blocks resembling two doors with a metal lock between them. These can be opened by using a Key on them, which will also consume the Key in the process. Locks can be found in Chapter 3, Chapter 5, Chapter 7, and Chapter 9.

Floating platforms which hover slightly up and down in the air. They are very similar to Anti-Gravity Platforms, as they are weighed down slightly when stood on or grabbed, but unlike Anti-Gravity Platforms these are moved a bit when bumped into from the side. These can be found all over Chapter 9.

Platforms that move back and forth along a set path, marked by a dark line behind them. These can be found in Chapter 3, Chapter 4, and Chapter 7.

A platform that falls from overhead when the player walks underneath it, crushing the player between it and the ground if the player doesn't move out of the way fast enough. After it falls, it can be climbed on like any normal platform. Only one exists in the game, and it is exclusive to the prologue.

Like White Clouds, these will squish down when stepped on, then launch the player into the air, higher if the player is holding down the jump button. However, unlike White Clouds, these will disappear after launching the player into the air or if the player walks off them, and will stay missing for a few seconds before reappearing. These can be found in Chapter 4 and Chapter 7.

Large buttons found in the floor of a level marked with an icon representing a type of material found throughout the level. When the player dashes downwards against one of these buttons, it will remove blocks of the corresponding material throughout the level. Platform-Rearranging Buttons can be found in Chapter 3.

These appear as large red and yellow fish with a gauge emanating from their lower half. Madeline can use the top half of these fish to bounce on. Jumping while bouncing off of a fish will grant extra height compared to a normal bounce, similarly to Ice Balls. The "super bump" mechanic of the Bumpers is also possible with these. After being bounced on, fish will descend and can be used again. Colliding with the lower half of a fish results in an explosion which pushes Madeline, similarly to exploding Seekers. Most fish respawn after exploding. Fish refill dash regardless of method of contact. Names for this object include Blowfish, Exploding Fish, and Pufferfish, and simply Fish. These fish are exclusive to Chapter 9.

Purple, circular objects that, upon being touched, causes the player to be launched upwards, recharging the player's dash in doing so and moving the Purple Orb to another location in the process. This dash is preceded by a brief animation of Badeline grabbing and throwing Madeline. When a Purple Orb is touched after having moved into its final position, the player will be launched onto the next screen (often, but not always, followed by a brief cutscene of Badeline and Madeline talking). Purple Orbs can be found at the end of Chapter 6, throughout Chapter 7, towards the end of Chapter 8, and towards the end of Chapter 9.

Red orb-like bubbles that, upon touch, begin moving the player in whatever direction corresponds with the direction keys that the player is holding down, only stopping when the object either collides with a wall or the player dashes out of them. Either way, this will recharge the player's dash, and the bubble will reappear shortly afterwards at its origin point. These can be found in Chapter 5 and Chapter 9.

Red crystal walls with some cracks in them which are found either attached to the floor or being used as solid platforms, but they also sometimes are used to block off paths. They function like any other solid walls, however a Seeker will break the wall if it charges into it. These can only be found in Chapter 5.

A slowly rising, spiky sheet of ice or magma that kills the player upon contact. Toggling Hot/Cold Switches will alternate between the sheet's appearance (with cold showing ice and hot showing magma), but the two appearances have no mechanical differences. Rising Ice/Magma is exclusive to Chapter 8.

Seekers are distorted face-like objects with many tentacles protruding from them. Seekers are purple by default, but will turn a bright red when Madeline comes within their line of sight, causing them to attempt to charge and kill Madeline. If this fails, the Seeker will prowl in the vicinity of where Madeline was last seen. The attack is made by charging up the attack (usually taking about one second) and dashing (letting it reach the far side of most screens), with the Seeker able to slightly change direction during dashing to adapt to the player's movement. Seekers can toggle Shields by dashing through them. The player can defeat Seekers by one of two methods. The first is temporary: if Madeline jumps on them, this will cause them to enter a dormant state for a few seconds, then explode, resuming their normal state and flinging Madeline if she is nearby. The second is to squish them via Temple Gates or Swap Blocks, and this will permanently destroy Seekers who are defeated in this fashion, rendering a death animation similar to Madeline's post-Chapter 6 death animation. Seekers are exclusive to Chapter 5.

Like Smashable Walls, these are wall-like objects that can be destroyed. However, unlike Smashable Walls, these cannot be destroyed by dashing against them; instead, to destroy them, one must cause Angry Platforms to charge through them. These can be found in Chapter 6 and Chapter 9.

Blue, square platforms that slowly sink when grabbed or landed on, then shatter after a short delay, reappearing at their original position shortly afterwards. These replace Launching Blocks in Chapter 8 while Hot/Cold Switches are flipped to cold.

Shield-Activated Platforms are platforms that are usually still but will move to a certain fixed, secondary location upon activating all of the Shields on a given screen. A given Switch Gate will look just like a normal platform with a shield symbol on it. This symbol will be blue normally but will turn white and trigger a door-bell sound while its platform is moving and will turn magenta once the platform is done moving. Shield-Activated Platforms may also occasionally have various other objects mounted on them. These can be found in Chapter 2, Chapter 3, Chapter 4, Chapter 7, Chapter 9, and the B-Side of Chapter 1. Another name for these is "key-activated platforms".

These are intangible objects comprised of a shield symbol with a circle around it. Each Shield will, by default, be blue, but upon passing through one, it will turn white. Upon touching all of the Shields on a given screen, all of the Shields on that screen will turn magenta and activate any Shield-Activated Platforms on that screen. Shields can be found in Chapter 1 (B-Side only), Chapter 2, Chapter 3, Chapter 4, Chapter 5 (where they can also be activated by Theo and the monsters), Chapter 6, Chapter 7, and Chapter 9. Another name for these is "key tokens".

Black blocks that regularly have a blue, shimmering pattern pass over them. Upon dashing against the edge of a Shimmer Block, the player will be bounced backwards to where they were before. Shimmer Blocks can only be removed by completing various events in Chapter 3's story. Alternatively, Shimmer Blocks may appear to block up an otherwise-accessible passage once that passage is no longer of use to the player. Shimmer Blocks can only be found in Chapter 3.

Brown platforms that normally stay still, move downwards when the player stands on them, and move back up when the player gets off of them. The player can hold down to make the platforms sink faster. Sinking Platforms can be found in Chapter 3 and Chapter 7.

These consist of a skull-like apparatus consisting of a circular metal plate with built in binoculars mounted on a vertical post. Interacting with them will allow the player to move the camera around a certain area unique to each Skull Binocular, allowing the player to view parts of the level that would be inaccessible to the player at that moment. These usually provide some strategic advantage by allowing the player to plan out what they will do in a certain part of the level far in advance of where they usually could do so. These are always seen at the beginning of the last screen of every C-Side, as these third screens tend to be very long and complicated. Aside from C-Sides, these can be found somewhere in every chapter except Chapter 8.

Indistinct masses of non-mobile black sludge with red outlines that will kill the player upon touch. An instance of Sludge may also have a pair of red eyes somewhere within it that may intermittently blink and/or move to watch the player based on where the player is in relation to that instance of Sludge. Sludge can be found in Chapter 3 and Chapter 7. Another commonly used name for these are "dust bunnies".

Small, reddish tendrils that protrude from platforms. Like Spikes, they are often found in rows. Touching a Sludge-Spawning Tile and then letting go of it will cause Sludge will form where the Sludge-Spawning Tile used to be. Sludge-Spawning Tiles can be found in Chapter 3, Chapter 7, and Chapter 9.

Wall-like objects that are destroyed when the player dashes against them, revealing other areas to the player. These can often be distinguished from regular walls by their difference in texture from whatever normal walls they are touching. These can be found in all chapters except for Chapter 9.

White balls that launch from the right side of the screen. If touched from the side or from underneath, they will instantly kill the player; however, if touched from above, they will disappear, launch the player into the air, and recharge the player's dash. Snowballs can be found in Chapter 4 and Chapter 7.

Large, black, sometimes-moving blocks with many-colored, purely cosmetic stars inside of them. Upon dashing into one of these blocks, the player will be transported in a straight line to the opposite side of the block, where they will then emerge. Emerging into a wall is deadly, but emerging through spikes is safe. When emerging from the left or right side, the player can jump for extra momentum (taught in 2-B) or cling to cancel momentum. These blocks can be found in Chapter 2 (where a special deactivated form of these blocks also appear), as well as in Chapter 7, the B and C-sides of Chapter 8, and Chapter 9. Names for this object include Dream Blocks, Space Blocks, Space Jam, Star Blocks, and Star Jam.

Conical spikes that kill the player on touch. They are individually fairly small, and, as such, are usually found in rows. They can be found lining any side of various types of platforms or walls. The player can move through spikes as long as they are moving in the direction that the spikes are oriented in; this is used in speedruns to skip certain rooms. These can be found in all chapters except the prologue and epilogue.

Wooden-looking springs that bounce the player in the direction the spring is facing with added upward momentum. Springs also recharge the player's dash when the player comes into contact with them. These can be found in all chapters except the prologue and epilogue.

Rectangular, futuristic-looking platforms with a light on the front. The light is red until activated, then turns green and expands when stepped on or grabbed as it shoots to the end of its conveyor-belt, then it will slowly move backwards to its starting position as the light shrinks and turns yellow. This functions very similarly to Conveyor-Belt Platforms. These can only be found in Chapter 9.

Spinning stars which change color as they move back and forth or in a circle which kill the player on contact. These have a similar function to Blades. These can only be found in Chapter 9.

Dark gray platforms with pink lights. Always found at one end of a white, intangible, rectangular track. If the player dashes, the platform will quickly move to the other end of the track, with their usually pink spots lighting up green. The platform will then slowly move back to the start of the track with its light alternating green and pink until it returns to the start, at which point it will return to normal. These platforms can be found in Chapter 5, Chapter 7, Chapter 8, and Chapter 9. Names for this object include Dashing Platforms and Swap Blocks. 

Dark gray pillars that retract into the surrounding walls when the Dash Switch paired with them is activated. They can also be opened by collecting all of the room's Shields. In the last subchapter of Chapter 5's A-Side and B-Side, a yellow temple gate is found at the end of every room and will stay closed until Theo's crystal is brought through them. These can be found in Chapter 5, Chapter 7, and Chapter 9.

Rectangular, mechanical-looking platforms with traffic lights along the front. By default, the red light is illuminated. As the name suggests, each one is located on a conveyor-belt-like mechanism. When one of these is stepped on or grabbed onto (though there is a grace period where the player can climb-jump up this platform without it triggering), it will shoot to the end of its conveyor-belt while turning on the green light, then will slowly move backwards to its starting position while the amber light shines. Upon returning to its starting position, the mover's red light will turn back on, ready to be activated again. These can be found in Chapter 1, Chapter 2, Chapter 7, and Chapter 8. Names for this object include Conveyor-Belt Platforms, Traffic Light Blocks, and Zippers.

These are identical to Feathers, except that they are encased in transparent bubbles. Upon dashing against the bubble, it will be broken, causing the player to collide with the Feather, which will then have its normal behavior. When the Feather reappears, it will do so as a Trapped Feather, not a normal one. These can be found in Chapter 6.

Dark purple platforms with an arrow pointing in a certain direction. Upon being stepped on or clung onto, a Triggered Platform will move in the direction that the arrow points in until the platform touches a platform, at which point the Triggered Platform will disintegrate, reappearing in its original spot after a short period of time. Triggered Platforms may also have Crystal Spikes on top of them. Unlike Guided Platforms, Triggered Platforms cannot be moved from their set path. Triggered Platforms can be found in Chapter 4, Chapter 7, Chapter 8, and Chapter 9.

Large generator-like boxes which are solid from all sides. When dashed into twice, they will remove all electric obstacles from the screen, usually allowing for further progression. When dashed into, they briefly collapse and expand in size. These are only found in Chapter 9.

Unlike air, players can freely move and dash infinitely through this with no danger of drowning, although movement in water is quite slow. Swimming through Water may be necessary in some parts of the game in order to access other areas in the game. This object is also unique in that it modifies sound while the player is in it, giving music and sound effects a submerged effect when the player is in water. This can be found in Chapter 3, Chapter 4, Chapter 6, and Chapter 7.

Bouncy white clouds that will squish down when the player steps on them, then launch the player into the air. Holding down the jump button while squishing down on a White Cloud will cause the player to be launched very high into the air based on how long the player stands on them before jumping, the longer the wait the higher the jump. These can be found in Chapter 4, Chapter 7, and Chapter 9.

This causes the player to move faster in whatever direction the wind is blowing in, but will cause the player to move more slowly in whatever direction the wind is blowing against. If a player is not moving at all, the wind will push them in whatever direction it is blowing in (if it is blowing left or right), forcing the player to crouch, hang on to a wall, or place a wall between themselves and the wind if they wish to not move at all. In extreme cases, players may be completely unable to move in the opposite direction of a horizontal wind without dashing. In addition, in Chapter 7 and Chapter 9, winds may blow vertically instead of horizontally, impeding or boosting jumping and climbing instead of running. This can be found in Chapter 4, Chapter 7, and Chapter 9.

Yellow torches that are always on, emitting a circle of light that will illuminate otherwise dark areas. These can be found in Chapter 5.

02 - Old Site (Black Moonrise Mix)

Old Site C-Side is the C-Side of Chapter 2: Old Site in Celeste. This C-Side introduces the player to space block re-grabs, with this technique being utilized to complete the level.

While the B-Side of this chapter focused on space block jumps, the C-Side here necessitates space block re-grabs to complete it. There is no pop up or the Bird to teach the player about how to do this in the first room, which solely requires using the technique to make it through. To space block re-grab, the player must hold the opposite direction they are moving through the space block plus the climb button and they will grab the other side of the space block instead of being popped forward out of it. The second room sees Badeline return to chase the player around as they collect key tokens across the room. The final room is a long stretch with key tokens scattered all over, with space blocks being used to travel between the different areas of the room.

You'll need to do a space block re-grab after you jump forward and dash straight right through the first space block in order to not be shot into spikes to the right. After doing this, you can simply climb up and dash straight right again through the other space block and complete the room.

Two Badelines will follow behind you in this room, so advance to the right quickly and bounce on the spring. There are a few ways to do this room, but an easy method is to start by moving right in the air to then dash diagonally up-right through the left space block, fall down to collect a key token, then dash again up-right to reach another key token. Hold in place for a bit and start to fall down the right wall, then dash up-left back through the space block, then do a space block jump as you dash up-left through the other one to reach another key token. Then, start falling to the right until you collect the last key token of the room, then dash straight up through the space block and move to the right, then you can make your way to the bottom right of the room with either a down-right dash through the space block or falling patiently until you can dash straight right, making it to the end of the room.

This room has some skull binoculars available to preview the room, if needed. Start by jumping right and dashing straight right into the space block and doing a space block jump all the way to the right to reach a key token. Fall until you can dash to the left and space block jump out of the nearby space block such that you collide with the first space block in the room. Then, fall into the next key token and dash right into the long space block on the right to be taken to the next area of the room. Do a space block jump out, then dash straight up into the next space block you encounter. From here, dash straight right through the next space block, fall a bit and then dash straight right again into another, then quickly dash straight up into another space block and dash straight right immediately after exiting that one to enter one more. Space block jump out of this next one to arrive in an area filled with spikes. Fall down carefully until you can collect another key token, dashing straight right at that point to reach a dash crystal. Follow the dash crystals by dashing straight up, up-right, then straight up in quick succession. It's also possible to only do straight up dashes here, which may be easier. After this, dash straight right into another space block and re-grab the right side of it to avoid the spikes to the right. Let go and fall down to line yourself up with a space block to the right, then dash straight right and space block jump with a light tap. You'll collect a key token as you do so, then prepare to do this again two more times for two more key tokens. There will be one more space block to the right after collecting all key tokens and the key-activated platform will be about to move up, so space block jump all the way to the right to grab the key-activated platform, allowing it to take you up higher. From here, you can jump and dash straight left to go through one last space block and arrive right at the Crystal Heart, which you can then dash into to complete the level.

Old Trail is the third subchapter of Chapter 4: Golden Ridge in Celeste. The subchapter will be mostly made up of wind rooms, some of which have a unique trait of having wind which stops and starts blowing on a timer. There are no story moments found in this subchapter.

This subchapter may be short, but it can be quite tricky. In a few of the early rooms, the player is tasked with utilizing green bubbles to survive against the wind. The required strategy for these such rooms is to boost Madeline to near a floating platform using the green bubble and dash into it to climb up it and continue. 

In the sixth room of the subchapter, the trick to complete the room is to activate the guided platform and then quickly run ahead and cause the falling platform to drop, allowing the guided platform to continue. There is also a key token later in the room which much be touched to move a key-activated platform out of the way and allow the guided platform to keep going and give the ability to complete the room. In the last two rooms of the subchapter, wind will be blowing on a timer before stopping, then starting up again shortly after. In the seventh room, by starting to move right as the wind starts blowing, it will always be possible to make it to the platform and climb it right as the wind stops blowing, and from there simply landing on the disappearing platforms below is all that's needed to finish. In the eighth and final room of the subchapter, play it slowly and wait for the wind to stop whenever attempting to go left at any point.

There are 7 Strawberries found in this subchapter.

Above the left wall of the first room on the subchapter, a left transition will lead to a wind containing the first berry of the subchapter. Approach the Winged Strawberry from the left side by jumping all the way to the left and then jumping up the wall. You shouldn't be jumping while holding onto the wall, as this wastes your stamina and jumping normally will still get you height thanks to the wind. Use a wall cling jump to get above the crystal spikes and continue jumping up the higher part of the wall. When you get to the top, jump right and dash right (above where the Winged Strawberry is) to reach the starting ledge, which you then climb up to safety.

Found in the first room of the subchapter, this Strawberry is floating under the main platforming area of the room near the start. Walk off of the small platform above the berry and right as you touch it, start going left and dash diagonally up-left and grab the wall above the crystal spikes. Climb up the wall and land on it to claim the berry.

Found in the fourth room of the subchapter, this Strawberry is at the far-right side of the screen. To get this Strawberry, you need to first do the whole room normally and land on the bridge at the end. From there, wait until the triggered platform used earlier respawns, then go back down to the green bubble and direct it up-left and steer Madeline left to then grab onto the triggered platform. This will allow you to be on the platform while having a dash available. Ride it to the right side and jump to the berry to grab it, then jump back left and dash into the green bubble, allowing you to claim the Strawberry.

In the fifth room of the subchapter, an alternate path to the left can be entered which leads to this berry's room. Using the harsh wind, jump left and dash left to barely be able to reach the Strawberry. Jump or climb up the left wall to reach the dash crystal, and from there jump right and diagonally dash up-right into the next dash crystal, then dash right again to enter the green bubble. Aim the green bubble directly right and then dash diagonally up-right into the last dash crystal, then fall down and dash directly right to make it back.

Found in the fifth room of the subchapter, this Strawberry is seen at the end in a complicated area. Ride the triggered platform to the right and collect the key token while holding onto the wall. Make a jump to the left and dash at the last moment to reach the key-activated platform, which you must climb to get back to safety and claim the berry.

Found in the eighth room of the subchapter, this Strawberry is found around the middle of the room floating around many crystal spikes. Take the closest green bubble directly left and allow the wind to blow you to the wall. Climb this wall and, when the wind stops, jump left to grab the berry and quickly dash directly right to get back to the wall. From here, climb back up and go to the green bubble and move on like normal.

A hidden room can be found to the right of the eighth room of the subchapter. To access it, go through the slightly cracked part of the right wall which is located right above the set of crystal spikes. The following room will have many green bubbles which you need to simply aim right and then dash up to advance. For the third green bubble, aim it down-right and dash up-right. Wall jump up the next corridor and take the green bubbles at the top to the left to finally see the Strawberry. Aim the final green bubble directly down to grab the berry, then dash to the side. Hold onto the wall and climb back up so you can wall jump into the green bubble and use it to get out of the room.

Granny (Chapter 9)Celia (Chapter 9, possibly)

MadelineTheoMr. OshiroPart of MadelineBirdCarlos (Theo's Grandfather)

Old Woman is a character in Celeste and one of the few known people who inhabit the mountain. She demonstrates great knowledge about the mountain, constantly warning Madeline about its powers. Her attitude tends to be carefree, serving mainly as a medium for Madeline to vent her feelings and reveal more about her character. Madeline refers to her as "Granny" in Chapter 9, possibly revealing her to be Madeline's grandmother (unless this is simply a term of affection). It was also revealed that, with Theo's grandfather, she traveled up the mountain as Madeline did when she was younger. She was revealed to have died in Chapter 9.

Old Woman is short, has white hair, and has wrinkles around her face. She wears a green jacket, brown pants and shoes (dark bluish-green in promotional art), and supports herself on a staff.

07 - Spirit of Hospitality  08 - Scattered and Lost  Ending cutscene:  06 - Checking In 

Presidential Suite is the fourth and final subchapter of Chapter 3: Celestial Resort in Celeste. The subchapter starts with Mr. Oshiro showing off the resort's presidential suite for Madeline to stay in, but Badeline shows up to mock Mr. Oshiro and cause him to go into a fit of rage, chasing down Madeline as she progresses across the rooftop.

After Madeline goes to the rooftop and has a fight with Badeline, Mr. Oshiro comes up to talk again with Madeline only for Badeline to call him pathetic, which enrages him. The player is then tasked with getting to the end of the rooftop while Mr. Oshiro is constantly attacking by charging across the screen every couple of seconds relative to where Madeline currently is. Mr. Oshiro will be waiting on the left side of the camera constantly except for when he charges. His head can be bounced on if Madeline lands on him right as he passes. A strategy for much of this section is to wait in place until Mr. Oshiro does his charge and dash right above him, then continue as far right as possible without needing to worry about his interference. This is much harder is the player if bouncing on a spring as the timing to dash above him will be less consistent. By constantly dashing straight downward over the spring you can keep your position low, making Mr. Oshiro always charge low down, giving an easy window to dash above him.

There are 3 Strawberries found in this subchapter.

Found in the fifth room of the subchapter, this Strawberry will require you to bounce on Mr. Oshiro's head to reach it. It's located around a tunnel of dust bunnies and is out of reach without the extra boost. Stand on the right edge of the platform to the left of it and wait until Mr. Oshiro's white laser shoots out to do a jump, then after bouncing up dash diagonally up-right and fall through the tunnel to get the berry safely.

Found in the ninth room of the subchapter, a Strawberry is found near the start in a tight corridor between dust bunnies. You could dash up from the floor and find a general area where you can jump across and grab the berry while not touching the dust bunnies. Another method is to bounce on Mr. Oshiro's head to get on the wall with a dash still available. From there, dash through where the berry is to get it.

Found in the ninth room of the subchapter, this berry is comparatively very simple to get. At around the middle of the room is a Strawberry floating at the bottom. Walk off the left edge, dash to the right and climb up the wall to get it. Be sure that Mr. Oshiro won't attack you during this time by letting him pass before you walk off.

The Prologue is the first chapter of Celeste, coming before the first chapter proper (Chapter 1: Forsaken City). It gives the setup for the game, teaches the player the game's basic mechanics, and introduces three characters: Madeline, the Old Woman, and the Bird.

This chapter is fairly simple in terms of gameplay, with the only two objects present in the environment being the Overhead Platform Trap and the Collapsing Bridge. However, this chapter does teach the player two manoeuvres—climbing and dashing—through the Bird. (Moving and jumping are not taught to the player at all.)

On Screen Text: This is it, Madeline.

On Screen Text: Why are you so nervous?

Madeline: The sign out front is busted... is this the Mountain trail?

Old Woman: You're almost there. It's just across the bridge.

Madeline: By the way, you should call someone about your driveway. The ridge collapsed and I nearly died.

Old Woman (laughing): If my "driveway" almost did you in, the Mountain might be a bit much for you.

Madeline: Well if an old bat like you can survive out here, I think I'll be fine.

Old Woman: But you should know, Celeste Mountain is a strange place.

Old Woman: You might see things.

Old Woman: Things you ain't ready to see.

Madeline: You should seek help, lady.

On Screen Text: You can do this.

Old Woman (to Madeline): But you should know, Celeste Mountain is a strange place.

Old Woman: You might see things.

Old Woman: Things you ain't ready to see.

Madeline: You should seek help, old lady.

Reflection is the fourth subchapter of Chapter 6: Reflection in Celeste. The subchapter has the player chasing down Badeline's vines which block off portions of the screen until approached. The Old Woman returns and tells Madeline that she should talk with Badeline and find out why she's scared. A secret developer room with easter eggs to Maddy Thorson's other creations can be found in this subchapter.

After a cutscene with Madeline talking to the Old Woman, the player continues right and encounters Badeline's vines in the next room. The vines don't do anything aside from blocking off parts of the screen visually. These vines will move back when the player gets close, before fading away completely at the end the room and re-appearing in the next one. The third room of the subchapter will be an incredibly tall vertical descent filled with crystals and bumpers. Some thin gaps in the crystals are intended skips if the player is willing to risk the time save. The fourth room of the subchapter is a water section which the player has to swim through while avoiding crystals along the way. The fifth room of the subchapter is just a long travel across an angry platform to rapidly approach the vines in a long room.

In the first room of the subchapter, the player is able to go up above the elevator shaft left of the Old Woman and reach a secret room. To get through this room, advanced movement techniques are required. A wall bounce must be performed on the first dip in the wall to barely reach the next one above it. From there, you can jump to the right onto the other dip on the wall and jump into the gap in the wall with no crystals to reveal a hidden section. From this hidden section, you must do either a wavedash or a hyperdash to the left and dash up into the gap between crystals there and another hidden section is opened. Going to the left will lead the player to a room with some references to the creator of Celeste's original characters, including characters from TowerFall.

There are no Strawberries found in this subchapter.

06 - Reflection (Center of the Earth Mix)

Reflection is the second subchapter of Chapter 6: Reflection B-Side in Celeste. The subchapter is mostly composed of large vertical rooms which the player must descend through while chasing against Badeline's vines which block parts of the screen.

In this subchapter, nearly every room will be a large drop from the top in which the player must avoid crystals everywhere in slightly varying challenges. Generally, all of the rooms for the most part will play out the same way, having the player move left and right as they descend and dashing at the right moments, sometimes interacting with objects like angry platforms along the way. Every room has some water at the bottom, but this is never— except for one tiny stretch— used for any challenges.

This room isn't a challenge and is just a re-introduction to Badeline's vines, so just advance to the right and go down the hole at the end, making sure not to hit the crystals near the corridor.

For this first drop, your inputs should be quite linear. Fall down and dash straight right to collect a dash crystal, then fall and dash left  when the time is right. Do this again, dashing straight right, right again, then left and continue falling. Sway a bit right and left as you fall down this last part to avoid any nearby crystals poking out.

Fall down and dash straight right twice according to when you collect dash crystals, then dash right again, this time into the angry platform, then grab onto it. Slide down it slightly as you grab it to avoid being crushed by the wall to the left. Then, you can let go and jump down to another dash crystal and you can use that dash straight into the angry platform to the left to then grab it when you can. Release the grab button as soon as the angry platform hits a platform seen within the crystals such that you can boost yourself to the right over the many crystals. Jump to the left off of the right wall and carefully move to the left inbetween the gaps of crystals.

Jump to the right and dash straight right to reach a gap in the crystals, then fall into the bumper below's top-left side. This should give you enough of a bounce to reach the left side gap in the crystals and allow you to fall down a bit. Eventually, you'll need to dash straight right, and after that you should aim for the top-left side of the other bumper, found below. After being bounced to the left, you can dash in any direction needed to correct your location to a point where you can fall through the gap and to the bottom of the room. The path to the end of the room will be partially blocked by crystals here, but you can safely just swim to the bottom of the pool of water and go straight right to avoid it.

In this room, you need to make sure to save your dash properly. Jump to the right and fall down while swaying left or right to get around the crystals, then you'll need to dash straight to the left to keep falling. After this, you'll touch a dash crystal, and fall a bit further and you can use this regained dash straight to the right, then move a bit to the left to touch another dash crystal. Move a bit to the right, then dash straight left again and you'll be finished.

Jump and dash straight to the right, then fall to the right for a bit so that you can land on top of an angry platform. You'll need to dash straight down to make the angry platform move up, then jump as it collides with a bit of the wall so that you can get a large jump up. At this height, dash to the left into a dash crystal, then dash to the right after falling a bit into another dash crystal, then dash right into the angry platform's left side and grab it. Wait until the angry platform fully stops after it collides with the wall to then jump off safely to the left and not be thrust into crystals. Slide down the left wall and jump to the right and you should make it to the bottom.

This room will also require you to save your dash for the first bit of the drop, in which you just need to move back and forth to avoid any protruding crystals until you can grab the wall. Position yourself to then jump all the way to the left, between crystals above and below, and you'll reach another wall to grab. Find the right spot to jump to the right and grab another wall just below, then jump to the right off of that one and dash diagonally up-right over some crystals at the end.

Jump to the right and dash straight to the right into a dash crystal, then dash to the left after falling a bit. Start quickly moving to the right as you fall to collect another dash crystal, then dash straight right into the feather. Take this feather to the left, down, and to the right as much as possible. You'll fall again and then need to dash left, collect a dash crystal, and dash right. Then fall while moving a bit to the left or right to avoid a stray crystal in the middle of the gap.

This room oddly does not contain Badeline's vines, so you can proceed without any obstructions in the room. In this room you'll need to be dashing constantly as you keep refreshing your dash. Dash to the right after falling into the first dash crystal, then dash up-right into another one to avoid the crystals while narrowly making it inbetween some crystals. From the right wall below, jump to the left and dash to the left to collect another dash crystal, then dash from there up-left and grab the platform. Climb up, then jump right into the dash crystal and quickly move back right and climb the platform again. Using your regained dash to go up-left and start falling, moving left and right, to fall into another dash crystal. Dash straight right, fall a bit, then dash up-right into another dash crystal, then keep going right and dash straight right. Fall a bit, then you'll need to fit between two sets of tiny gaps in crystals by dashing to the left and falling. For consistency, try dashing to the left early so you can see if you might need to move a bit back right to correct your position.

This room will be horizontally oriented with many dash crystals to follow. Jump off the starting area to the right and dash right into the first dash crystal, then dash up-right into the next dash crystal. Fall a bit and then dash straight right into another, then dash straight up and move a bit to the right to hit another. Dash up-right and collect another dash crystal, then fall a bit to then dash right into another dash crystal, then dash up-right into the feather. Take this feather to the right with a bit of upward and downward adjustment along the way and you'll reach the end.

06 - Reflection (Center of the Earth Mix)

Reflection C-Side is the C-Side of Chapter 6: Reflection in Celeste. This C-Side is composed of extra large rooms where precise play is needed to avoid the plethora of crystals.

This C-Side won't have some sections seen in the A-Side and B-Side, such as Badeline covering the screen with her vines or taking part in a boss fight. However, the final room is uniquely composed of two parts with a checkpoint in the middle to create a much larger room than usual. The first room has bumpers that you need to bounce on in such a way that the player can do wall bounces. The second room is a descent through a crystal maze where feathers are needed to get around safely. The final room has a section where the player must bring an angry platform down to be used later to go to the right. After this, another section of the room is a long bottomless stretch with only bumpers to make it to the right.

You'll need to jump off the ledge to the right side of the first bumper, then dash straight left into said bumper and hold no buttons to be bounced just far right enough to be aligned for a wall bounce. Land on the next bumper and move to the right, dashing straight right through the gap in the crystals to land on another bumper. Try to land on the top right of this bumper such that you'll be able to make it far right enough to wall bounce on the platform above and reach the ending ledge.

Starting at the top of this room, you must descend to the bottom while avoiding the crystals all around. Jump right and dash right, then fall down while moving a bit to the right, then back left when you collect the dash crystal, then dash straight right to land on the feather below. Take the feather back up and through the windy corridor and then go straight left and fall down the next area when it releases you. Move a bit right, then a bit left, then dash straight right and fall further until you can grab the wall on the left side below. Jump to the right to reach another feather, then carefully guide it up and left, straight up and then straight left, then quickly go down and a bit to the left and then direct it at the wall to the right. Slide down this wall, then jump to the left to make it around the crystals below and dash back straight right and you'll fall to the water below and be able to go to the next room.

This room has some skull binoculars available to preview the room, if needed. You'll need to bring the angry platform at the start of this room to the bottom so that you can use it later. Jump down and dash to the left into it, then grab it near the bottom. You'll be safe in a small dip in the wall, then wait for it to move back left to let go and fall to the left into the dash crystal, then dash diagonally up-left into the bottom side of the angry platform. After doing this immediately go to the right to grab the wall before falling into crystals below, then wait a bit before jumping to the left and running across the angry platform to then dash into its left side and grab it to be taken to the left. Grab the top half of the angry platform to be safe while it crashes into the left, then let go and fall into a dash crystal, dash straight left into a bumper, then with the momentum to the right you will be able to dash straight up into the bottom of the angry platform. After this, fall down and dash left after collecting the dash crystal below, then back right as you collect another one and land on the angry platform. When the angry platform starts moving up again, dash left into its right side and grab onto it, then release the grab button and jump to the right when it crashes into the walls to the right. After arriving at one more dash crystal, dash up-right to make it to a safe area.

You'll get a checkpoint at this spot if you die later in the room, and there are more skull binoculars available to preview the room, if needed. Jump to the right and dash straight left into the bumper and hold right, then dash straight up as you pass the next bumper and hold left to bounce to the right from it. After this bounce, you can dash up-right and fall to the left once you pass the crystals covering the bumper below to hit its right side and bounce further right. Dash straight up from your bounce and move left to bounce off another bumper, then dash up-right again and fall to then move left into the right side of another one below. Dash straight up into the dash crystal when you reach it to halt your momentum, then fall to the right and you'll be able to do a wall bounce off of the small platform to get over to the right. Bounce on the bumper below, then fall to the right before bouncing on it again and dash straight left into it to get a bounce to the right. You can then dash into the dash crystal and dash into the Crystal Heart to complete the level.

06 - Reflection (Center of the Earth Mix)Final Room:06 - Reflection (8-Bit)

Reprieve is the fourth and final subchapter of Chapter 6: Reflection B-Side in Celeste. The subchapter brings the player to the second, "glitched out" phase of the Badeline boss fight. The red Crystal Heart to complete the B-Side can be found in this subchapter.

At the beginning of the subchapter, Badeline will not be present. Starting from the second room of the subchapter, however, Badeline's boss fight will be back on and she'll be able to move parts of the rooms back and forth this time. This doesn't change too much aside from one room, and the strategy of winning here will be largely similar to how the previous subchapter is played out.

In this room, despite Badeline not being here, you'll need to be quick with your actions. Jump and dash right into the angry platform at the start, then grab it and jump to the left shortly after. Then, jump to the right into the dash crystal and dash to the left into the angry platform's right side and grab it. When it collides with a platform inside the crystals, let go and you'll be flung right all the way to a gap in the crystals and reach another dash crystal. With your regained dash, dash to the left onto another nearby angry platform and grab it as well. Let go when it crashes into a platform and you'll be launched further right, passing through a dash crystal, and then you need to dash diagonally up-right into another dash crystal and then up-right once more. You'll then fall into another dash crystal, and you'll need to dash left to hit another angry platform and grab it. Let yourself be flung right when it collides with a platform below and you'll reach another angry platform at the right side. On the way you'll touch a dash crystal, so dash up-right into this angry platform and grab it, then let go when it crashes into a floating platform. When you reach the set of two dash crystals at the left, just keep dashing straight up to exit the room.

Badeline returns here and she'll just be blasting you with her laser. Jump off the ledge at the start after baiting out her laser and dash right to land on the disappearing platform. Jump to the right and dash straight up to land on the disappearing platform above, then jump right and dash up-right. Do a wall jump off the right side of the wall to hit Badeline, then grab the platform the left as it starts to move. Let this platform move right and then jump off and dash to the right to land on a smaller platform to the right. Jump from here to the right and dash to land on top of the bumper to the right, then you can go more to the right and dash into Badeline. Fall the right as soon as you hit Badeline, and when you're just about to hit the crystals dash to the left directly into the bumper and you'll get a huge boost right. With this boost you can grab the platform to the right, climb it and jump to the right and hit Badeline. After hitting her, you can safely wait a bit to then dash up-right and land on the platform falling from the ceiling.

Walk off the ledge and fall to the right until you're just to the right of the first bumper, then dash left into it and hold no inputs. Dash up-left after your bounce to hit another bumper, then you'll be launched to the area where Badeline is to hit her. After this, jump and dash into the feather nearby and direct it down-left, wrapping to the right and then straight up before dashing to the right out of it. From here, Badeline will start attack with some shots from behind a key-activated platform. Fall from the ceiling to the disappearing platform and key token below, hugging the right side of the platform as you descend. After collecting this key token, dash up to the top of the bumper and after you bounce up dash straight up into another key token. If you feel the need to, stall up here for one of Badeline's shots to pass, then you can fall down onto the bumper, move right a bit in the air, and dash straight up again for another key token. The last key token, found at the bottom-right, is very approachable and should be easy to fall into and jump back to the bumper from. After this, ensuring that Badeline won't fire a shot as you do so, bounce on the top-right part of the bumper and dash up-right to reach Badeline and finish the room.

Start this room by baiting out a laser shot, standing stationary until it blasts then dashing straight up to dodge it. Then do a short jump to the right to align yourself just right to dash up-right and land on a disappearing platform. You can walk from here to the right to land on another disappearing platform after making sure the laser will miss you. Then from there jump and dash up-right into Badeline and she'll launch you to the right side. Slide down the right wall and grab it when needed to avoid the laser incoming. Then, quickly jump left and dash left to land on a disappearing platform, then jump to the other one and jump and dash into Badeline. Do a wall jump to the right and fall down to the area below. Climb up the angry platform if needed, but you should be able to fall past where the laser is aiming. After ensuring you've dodged the laser, dash into the angry platform and grab its bottom half, then let go when it crashes to be launched right into Badeline. You'll have to slide down the right wall again and wait out a laser, then you can jump left and start bouncing and dashing between bumpers to eventually reach Badeline again and hit her. Fall down the left wall and wait out the laser, then jump and dash to right and quickly cross the disappearing platforms and hit Badeline to end the room.

This room will be quite long and have Badeline attacking you from afar the whole time with her laser. After the first laser's cycle is dodged, jump off the ledge and dash up-right into the feather and start advancing to the right. Aim the feather up and down accordingly, obviously, then stay idle once you pop out and fall down to the dash right and fall into the next feather. With this feather, you need to get near the angry platform above to the right and dash up-right into it to cause it to fall down, then keep moving right and land in another feather. This one will be taken up and to the left, passing where the angry platform moved from, then going as far to the right as possible. To make the upcoming cycles more consistent, dash up-right after exiting the feather and grab onto the ceiling protrusion. Wait here until the laser starts to blast, then fall down into the right side of the nearby bumper. After being bounced right, you'll need to dash left into another bumper and be bounced even further right. Then, dash up-right into the feather and follow the opening of the crystals to the right, up, and right again and try to grab the bit of the ceiling here too. Bait out the laser at the top of the screen and then fall down, dashing left into the bumper below to be boosted to the right, then dashing straight up after passing the upper bumper and moving left to bounce off its right side. With this bounce, you can go right up to Badeline and hit her for the last time.

This will be the cassette block room of the chapter. Jump off the ledge and dash up-right just before the blue blocks appear to land on this first one. Walk right and jump off of it to the right and land on the bumper, then keep going right and dash up-right to pass by the next blue block just before it appears and land on its lower half. After this, jump to the right and dash straight up after passing the bumper, then move left to bounce off its right side. You should then be able to do a diagonally up-right dash to land on another blue block when it appears, then jump and dash to the right and bounce on the top of the bumper. After one bounce, the timing should be just right to fall to the right and dash left into the bumper and bounce yourself to the right and pass the pink block before it appears, then dashing up-right one more time into the Crystal Heart to win the level.

Rescue is the fifth and final subchapter of Chapter 5: Mirror Temple in Celeste. The subchapter comprises of Madeline having to carry Theo encased in a crystal to the end. In the final room, a giant eyeball sending glitchy distortion waves is encountered. By throwing Theo at it, the eye will be destroyed, and Theo will break free from the crystal, causing the chapter to end.

The player will start this subchapter by seeing Theo in his trapped state (in the same room it was possible to get a glimpse of in the previous subchapter) and walking up to him. After a conversation between him and Madeline, Theo's crystal is dropped on the ground. By holding the climb button while near the crystal, Madeline will pick it up. This severely limits her movement capabilities— she will walk slower, not be able to climb walls, and not be able to dash. By releasing the climb button, Madeline will throw the crystal forward and if the player holds down when releasing the button, the crystal is simply dropped in place. This throw can activate dash switches and knock away Seekers. Theo can die if he falls into a pit (which results in a death for the player), however Seekers can't damage him, nor can crystals as he will go right through them. He can also collect key tokens for the player when thrown or launched into them.

Many of the rooms in the subchapter won't require you to utilize Theo to complete them, and he only serves as a burden to bring to the end. The gates at the end of each room will be shut unless Theo is brought through them, so it's important to keep him in a safe position to retrieve after the main challenge of the room has been finished. Certain rooms such as the seventh room of the subchapter will make Theo integral to advance, in this example you would boost him high into the air using a swap block to allow him to grab a key token for you.

There is 1 Strawberry found in this subchapter.

Found in the sixth room of the subchapter, this Strawberry will require strategic use of Theo and the Seeker to reach. Get to the end of the room where the Strawberry is above and lure the Seeker over. Try to get a good bounce off of the Seeker and use the height to throw Theo into the dash switch on the wall inside crystals. This will open the temple gate blocking the berry, allowing you to freely dash up to it.

Resolution is the sixth and final subchapter of Chapter 6: Reflection in Celeste. The subchapter gives the player a chance to test out their newly obtained double mid-air dash and has no obstacles present. A purple orb is seen in this subchapter for the first time in the game, and it will launch Madeline into the last room of the chapter where she meets up with the Old Woman and Theo before venturing off to The Summit.

This subchapter does not try to kill the player in any way. As a matter of fact, the only way the player could die here aside from a retry is by climbing up past the purple orb and into the decoration crystals. The subchapter is only 2 rooms of gameplay long and then from the 2nd room, the purple orb sends the player into a last room which only serves as a cutscene.

There are no Strawberries found in this subchapter.

16 - Confronting Myself17 - Little Goth

Rock Bottom is the fifth subchapter of Chapter 6: Reflection in Celeste. The subchapter is somewhat of a boss battle against Badeline where Madeline will push her back through the room by getting close, meanwhile Badeline will have some attacks to hit Madeline from a distance. In the last room of the subchapter, Madeline and Badeline will make amends and hug, then Madeline will combine with Badeline and level up to gain a second mid-air dash.

To complete each room, the player must direct Madeline into Badeline's hitbox to scare her back to another spot in the room until eventually she zips to the next room. Badeline has 2 attacks: one where she shoots a slow red shot at where Madeline currently is and one in which she aims at Madeline's location with a laser that will blast shortly after. Each room specifically designates which attacks she will do, at what rate, if she will shoot 1 or 2 shots at once, and how many times she attacks. After touching Badeline, Madeline will be launched away either left or right (also pre-determined for every position) and this will restore her dash. Sometimes when Badeline is hit, she will cause parts of the wall to fall down and potentially crush Madeline. After Badeline tries to convince Madeline she was just trying to help her in the fourteenth room of the subchapter, she goes into a glitched out phase in the fifteenth room and will start to move platforms back and forth constantly.

The strategy of this subchapter is to keep patient. Don't rush into Badeline's hitbox as soon as possible, but rather sneak closer as you weave past her attacks and then dash right in when she isn't attacking. If she's about to blast her laser while you're grounded, stay in place and dash straight up as it comes out to dodge it. For the fifth and sixth rooms of the subchapter, this will be crucial to dodge the rapid sets of double shots. For any rooms with feathers, try not to panic and fly into the crystals as usually Badeline herself won't be a threat in this state. In the sixteenth room of the subchapter, boosting yourself to the right with the momentum of Badeline's controlled platform to jump through the corridor will be required, followed by a dash around the crystals at the end of the tunnel. After completing the twentieth room of the subchapter, all of the crystals in the room will be broken and in the next room, Madeline can reconcile with Badeline before they combine to grant Madeline the second mid-air dash more prominently seen in the following chapters.

There are no Strawberries found in this subchapter.

06 - Reflection (Center of the Earth Mix)

Rock Bottom is the third subchapter of Chapter 6: Reflection B-Side in Celeste. The subchapter begins the boss fight against Badeline where the player must push her back through the rooms by hitting her in various spots, carefully being bounced around for each hit to navigate the rooms.

The mechanics of the Badeline boss fight here will be largely similar to the ones seen in the A-Side. Badeline will float in an area and either aim a laser beam at the player's location or throw a shot, both of which kill the player if touched. Things have to be done in a specific order here very often and must be done urgently or else the blocks necessary to move forward will have fallen off screen.

Jump off the starting ledge and dash diagonally up-right into Badeline, then you'll be launched to the left. Do a wall jump off the left wall to go right and dash straight right between the crystals to quickly land on a spring below and dash straight up, moving a bit to the right, to hit Badeline again. After being launched to the left again, wall jump to the right and fall a bit before dashing straight right and landing on another spring. Bounce to the right on the spring and dash into Badeline and you'll then be launched left once again. Quickly wall jump off the left wall you hit and try to land on the falling chunk of the ceiling while moving to the right, then dashing to the right onto one more spring which will bounce you into Badeline and allow you to finish the room.

Walk down off the starting ledge and then dash into Badeline while avoiding the shot she throws. After being bounced left, you'll need to dash up-right and grab the falling bit of the ceiling, then jump up over it to the right to collect a dash crystal. With the regained dash, dash up-right again to hit Badeline. You'll then need to dash straight right into a falling block while holding the grab button, then jump up and to the right and land on the feather to the right. With this feather just go right and move up and down accordingly through the crystal tunnel.

For this room, make sure to only go after stalling out the laser attack and dodging it. After this you can safely jump right and dash into the first dash crystal, then follow the dash crystals by dashing straight up and straight right following this. Do another dash to the right to hit Badeline, then you'll need to dash straight up while not being directly below the two platforms above which will start falling. The goal is actually to fall to the right after dashing up and start running to the right on top of the falling platform as it falls. You can then eventually dash up-right, straight right, or straight up (depending on how you choose to dodge the oncoming laser) and follow it up with some up-right dashes to keep collecting more dash crystals, eventually dashing into Badeline. After being bounced back left, dash left into the trapped feather and take it right, then up, and over the overhang of crystals until you can reach Badeline at the right and hit her for the last time.

This room will be very tricky to find the right path through, having many key tokens scattered over a bottomless pit while needing to take care of Badeline along the way. There are a couple of ways to go about this section, but the most reliable is gliding on the first feather down to the first bottom key token, then straight up past the right of Badeline to collect the key token at the top, then falling down and hitting Badeline. After this, jump off the wall and dash straight right to arrive at another feather. This feather should aim down-right, going under the set of crystals which Badeline is near to collect the key token down there, then wrapping around the right side and going up-right to get another key token up there. After this, land on Badeline and she will launch you to the left and allow you get another feather trip. Go straight to the right, collecting a key token along the way, then start going up-right before crashing into some crystals. Go above the floating set of two crystals and collect the key token there, then aim down-right and dash down-right into Badeline. You'll then be bounced to the left, collecting the final key token in the process, then you need to fall down a bit and start dashing straight to the right three times in a row, constantly collecting dash crystals and a feather at the end. For this last section, there are fairly tight corridors covered with crystals you'll need to navigate through with the feather. It's best to not ever do diagonal inputs for this part, merely holding up, then right, then down, then right again, then dashing straight up through the bridge, allowing you to get the final hit on Badeline.

This room is large and will have a few sections to it. Walk to the right off the first ledge to fall inbetween some crystals, then dash to the left before falling into crystals below. Descend the wall to the dash crystal below, then jump and dash to the right and land on the top side of the bumper, slightly to the right. Wall jump up until you can dash to the right and fall onto Badeline below. After hitting her, wall jump back to the right from where she launched you and fall inbetween the gap in the crystals below until you can land on her. She'll then launch you to the left, where you can dash to the left into a dash crystal and then again, up-left, to reach a feather. Take it the right and down, then back left from below the crystals and you can safely grab the wall on the left. Wait out the laser attack before jumping off the wall and dashing right to land on the disappearing platform. Watch for the shot Badeline will then throw as you jump and dash to the right to hit the top of another bumper, then you can dash into Badeline and finish her first phase off.

03 - Celestial Resort (Good Karma Mix)Final Room:03 - Celestial Resort (8-Bit)

Rooftop is the fourth and final subchapter of Chapter 3: Celestial Resort B-Side in Celeste. The subchapter takes the player to the rooftop of the resort where Mr. Oshiro will be constantly chasing at them from the left side of the screen. The red Crystal Heart to complete the B-Side can be found in this subchapter.

After the players breaks their way onto the rooftop of the hotel, they'll go through the same type of chase sequence seen at the end of Chapter 3's A-Side where Mr. Oshiro will wait at the left side and then charge to the right to potentially kill the player. Mr. Oshiro is noticeably faster here than he was in the A-Side, spending much less time waiting on the left side before charging again.

A small, cramped room with some sludges on the right side and a smashable wall on the ceiling. Break through this smashable wall and climb up the corridor to make it on top of the hotel and begin the chase.

This room will require good wall jumps to ensure you don't run out of stamina at a bad time, so start by dashing diagonally up-right over the dust bunnies to reach the pillar on the right, then wall jump left and then back right. At this point you should grab onto the wall and wait for when Mr. Oshiro is about to pass, then jump up and go over to the right after he passed by to then fall into the dash crystal which should immediately be used to dash straight to the right and grab the wall. From here, start climbing up and jumping up the gaps. If your stamina is in a pinch, you may need to aim for landing on Mr. Oshiro's head to refresh it. Jump over to the right side of this pillar and do a wall jump off the right side down below to reach the dash crystal. Dash diagonally up-right and wait on this wall until Mr. Oshiro passes by, which is when you should jump up and to the right side where you'll then do a wall jump to make it over to the next pillar. You can then jump to the right of this pillar where a spring can be located, and from there play safely to get past the last pillar without Mr. Oshiro crashing into you.

There will be dust bunnies right above your head for most of this room giving a very claustrophobic environment which gives Mr. Oshiro an easy route to hit you. Wait on top of the first ledge for Mr. Oshiro to charge, then dash straight up to avoid him. Then walk right and duck when the moving sludge is coming at you, then dash diagonally up-right for a quick escape. If need be, go into the small dip in the floor when Mr. Oshiro does his next charge and duck to avoid him, and after he passes by quickly start running and dashing to the right. Get to where there's a hole above you and dash straight up there when Mr. Oshiro is charging at you in order to avoid him. After that, try to dash to the right before the moving sludge closest to you moves down and beat the cycle so that you can dash continuously to the end of the room before Mr. Oshiro has a chance to attack. If this isn't possible, there's another gap above you not too far after that can be used as a safety net.

Jump and then dash straight right to land on the spring, then dash straight right again. For consistency, grab onto the right side of the platform on the left and wait until Mr. Oshiro passes to jump up. After that, touch the first dash crystal and dash up-right into the other one, then dash straight right through the gap to reach the end of the room.

The cycle in which you begin this room can drastically affect how it's played out, and it's hard to keep track of the cycle after a death. Start by baiting Mr. Oshiro into a charge and dash over his head, then dash into the first dash crystal and continue dashing straight right about three times. From here, play it safe by only doing diagonal up-right dashes into the following dash crystals to potentially get around the circling sludges as well as dodge Mr. Oshiro when he attacks again. When the coast is clear, use your judgement to dash straight right as many times as needed to reach the end of the room.

In this room you'll need to be careful as sludge-spawning tiles will be everywhere and stamina will be tight. Start by walking right and then jump up and wall jump for a bit, making sure Mr. Oshiro passes below you. Do either a straight up or up-right dash to grab the key token above and swerve to the right so that you can climb up the right side of the second floating platform. From here, jump to the right when Mr. Oshiro is about to reach you and keep going right to collect the dash crystal above the sludge. Fall until you reach the next key token then dash to the right and start climbing the wall. Jump over to the right side of the wall and, at the top of it, jump again to the right to reach a dash crystal, then fall to the last key token and dash straight right. After this, the key-activated platform will move out of the way and you can enter the opened hole.

This will be the cassette block room of the chapter. Jump and dash straight right into the gap when the cassette blocks turn to blue and use your dash restored by the dash crystal to land on the pink cassette block with a spring on it. With your bounce, dash straight up into a key token above, then fall down to the key token below and grab the wall. Wait until the pink block appears again to jump onto it and bounce up. Dash diagonally up-right for another key token and land on top of the ledge. When the blue block appears, jump to it and dash straight up after bouncing on it for the last key token, then grab the right side of the ledge as you fall. Wait there until you can jump to the blue block again and bounce on it, then wait a short bit before dashing diagonally up-right to get to the Crystal Heart's section where you can win the level.

01 - Forsaken City (Sever the Skyline Mix)Final Room:01 - Forsaken City (8-Bit)

Scrap Pit is the third and final subchapter of Chapter 1: Forsaken City B-Side in Celeste. The subchapter has the trickiest challenges revolving around traffic light block momentum in the whole chapter. The red Crystal Heart to complete the B-Side can be found in this subchapter.

In all of the rooms here (aside from the last one), traffic light blocks are integral to completing the challenges, and specifically knowing how to utilize the momentum properly. Whether it be holding onto their sides and being flung over or standing on top of them and jumping at the right time, knowledge on how to boost yourself forward is crucial.

Jump above the spikes and dash right to the grab the traffic light block, then when it reaches the top let go and move yourself to the right side of it. Grab the right side of the traffic light block and hold on until it lowers back down, then jump to the disappearing platform to get your dash back. Then, jump back and grab the traffic light block and boost yourself up, moving to the right to grab the side of the other traffic light block. When that block moves down, immediately jump up and fall into the small hole created, then do a wall jump off the right side of the traffic light block and dash straight up to finish the room.

Grab onto the first traffic light block and ride it to the right, then jump off and grab the side of the next traffic light block. Be sure to NOT let go after it gets to the top or you'll be flung into spikes. After waiting a bit, jump to the right and dash straight right to grab the third traffic light block. Jump over the top of this traffic light block when it reaches the right and carefully far through the hole, avoiding spikes. Do some jumps up to the dash crystal in the gap up at the right and continue right, using a dash to get up to the corridor allowing you to finish the room.

This room has some skull binoculars available to preview the room, if needed. This room will have some tricky jumps to avoid spikes and also land on traffic light blocks. Jump to the first traffic light block and ride it up to be thrust upward and land on the next traffic light block, with a dash if needed. Boost yourself up with this traffic light block and dash up to grab the lower small traffic light block on the right. From then, quickly jump upward and move to the right to grab the other side of it, then jump on top of it to refresh your dash and dash straight up to the end of the room.

This room will be a lot of traffic light block momentum challenges around spikes with only dash crystals inbetween. Jump onto the first traffic light block and get a boost up, then do a diagonally up-right dash to get over the second traffic light block, which you should grab the right side of. From there, jump off and fall in the small gap and move back left into the dash crystal, then jump off of the traffic light block and use your dash to get to the next one. Get a boost up from this one but be careful of accidentally dying to the spikes facing the other way. You'll need to do a jump up before the traffic light block reaches the end, or you die. After being boosted up, move right and fall down, then dash onto the top of the final traffic light block. Boost up from here and use a dash to make it to the end of the room, but also be careful not to use your dash at the same time you pass the spikes, or you'll die.

A lot of moving parts are important to keep track of this room and keeping track of your dash is crucial. Grab the first traffic light block and fling yourself to the right, grabbing onto the traffic light block you arrive at. Move slightly left and you get boosted up from this traffic light block and then dash to the left to reach the next traffic light block. Ride it to the left and when it stops jump onto the small disappearing platform, then jump back onto the traffic light block. When you arrive back at the right, do a diagonal up-left dash and grab onto the next traffic light block and ride that to the left. From there, jump into the dash crystal and then dash straight up and land on the disappearing platform, then get across to the other disappearing platforms and when you reach the right, grab onto the traffic light block's left side. This one will fling you into another one which also flings you into another one which launches you right to the end of the room, which you can dash into.

This will be the cassette block room of the chapter. Right before the blocks turn to blue, jump forward and dash straight up and climb the right side of the first blue block quickly, then land on it. Jump from it to the pink block, then jump again forward and stall at the left wall in the lower area. Jump down when the blocks turn to blue and stand stationary, then dash straight to the right just before the blocks change color. Do this until you reach the right, where you can climb up into the dash crystal and dash into the Crystal Heart to win the level.

Search is the fourth subchapter of Chapter 5: Mirror Temple in Celeste. The subchapter will task the player with getting keys from across various paths to advance past a floor of corrupted spikes using a red bubble. In the first room of the subchapter, Madeline will be scared and confused at how she will save Theo before then relieving herself. A room to preview Theo trapped in a crystal is located above the second room of the subchapter and Madeline will be able to have a conversation with Theo here behind some crystals.

After traversing the first room composed of mostly crystals and red bubbles, the player arrives at a large main hub room in the second room of the subchapter. Like in the second subchapter of Chapter 5, many of the rooms here will be dark and only lighting blue torches will allow the player to easily see the room. There are 3 keys to be collected across the split paths, but only 2 will be required to clear the way for a red bubble to advance further into the subchapter (however getting all 3 will grant access to a Strawberry).

For the left path, go to the third room of the subchapter located to the middle-left side of the large second room. Just at the start, go down the steps to enter a hole and then fall down it and go back right into the second room. This will give access to behind a temple gate (which you can open with the dash switch right next to it) and a bottom transition leading to one of the keys. In the first room of this path, just timing your dashes to move swap blocks away at the right time is all that's needed. In the second room, you'll need to dash downward to boost up your jump from the swap block and dash into the red bubble, taking it up-left to reach the path to the key. Go to the right side of the second room of the subchapter and head down to find the next path to a key. First will be a room to collect 4 key tokens while being chased by a Seeker, then you take a red bubble through the first room of the subchapter to arrive at another room on the left. After falling through the next room, you just have to get past another room with a Seeker. The next room will have 2 key tokens out of reach. For the top one, stay on the ground and let the Seeker come to you. Do a short jump to bounce on it and hold the jump button for extra height, then dash straight up. For the other key token, lure the Seeker to charge at you moving left and jump above it so it grabs the key token for you and potentially traps itself with the key-activated platform blocking the crystals. After that is a room where you just have to go up some springs around crystals and then you can reach the key. The rightmost key will be more secretive, and the room containing it can be accessed by going right of the second room of the subchapter. The top entrance is easily enterable, but the bottom entrance is only accessible by destroying a red wall blocking it. At the top of this room is a red wall which you need to lure a Seeker to destroy. Beyond this is a short section which requires some good timing to advance using swap blocks and then you'll reach the key.

After unlocking both locks in the second room of the subchapter, you can go to the middle-right transition to find a red bubble. Take this to the left to bypass the group of corrupted spikes on the floor. Notably, a "Search skip" exists which utilizes precise movement maneuvers to make it past these corrupted spikes without the need for a red bubble. The next two rooms will be vertically tall and require making it up from the bottom whilst a Seeker chases you. A couple rooms later is the final room of the subchapter which has a temple gate locking you from advancing without collecting a single key token. This key token is found inside the red wall at the top, so lure the Seeker to destroy it and then grab it, quickly getting past the Seeker before it can attack you.

There are 6 Strawberries found in this subchapter.

Found in the third room of the subchapter (to the middle-left of the large hub) is a section opposite the left key path located by going below the initial entrance. Dash left into the red bubble and ride it left a bit, then dash directly up. Hold onto the wall or swap block, the land on top of the swap block. Next, dash diagonally up-left to where the other swap block will arrive and land on it, then crouch until it returns to the left. When you uncrouch, you'll collect this Strawberry and to make it back, dash directly up in this tiny corridor and fall to the red bubble, then take it back right.

Go to the top-left transition of the second room of the subchapter to find a secret room. Fall down and dash right into the red bubble, then take it left. When you're in the middle of both swap blocks, dash to the left out of the red bubble. Then you can find a section above the third room of the subchapter with this Strawberry above a disappearing platform. Important note, this passage is only enterable once, so make sure you get the berry the first time you get to it, or you'll need to restart.

In the room right of the second room of the subchapter, go to the bottom right and there will be a secret gap in the corrupted spikes which leads to another room containing a berry. You'll need to distract the Seeker in the lower area to allow yourself to hop between the tiny safe bits of the ground and arrive at the Strawberry, then do the same back to the beginning.

At the same section which leads to the last berry, hold onto the swap block and dash to launch yourself to another swap block. Jump off this swap block into the dash crystal and then dash diagonally up-right into the other swap block and climb up to the section above. The path reached will lead right to the Strawberry.

There is a Strawberry seen by the red bubble on the right of the second room of the subchapter which would take you across the corrupted spikes much further left. Under the red bubble is a smashable wall, but it can only be destroyed by aiming this red bubble downward, which gives access to the Strawberry.

By collecting all 3 keys in the subchapter and crossing the gap in the third room of the subchapter (meaning you would have 1 key while entering the red bubble) and going down to the next room, the key you have can be used to unlock a lock which guards this Strawberry.

Shrine is the second subchapter of Chapter 4: Golden Ridge in Celeste. The subchapter introduces guided platforms and triggered platforms. The Crystal Heart of Chapter 4 can be obtained in this subchapter. There are no story moments found in this subchapter.

The player will start this subchapter in a large room with many transitions across all sides. Most of these will lead only to Strawberry rooms. To progress through the subchapter, the guided platform seen at the start of this room must be steered left around a ledge to get Madeline high enough to reach the top-right transition which leads further into the subchapter. Despite many transitions and berry rooms found here, this subchapter has very few mandatory rooms to complete it. These rooms will be testing the player's knowledge of using triggered platforms and guided platforms to make it by.

The Crystal Heart of this chapter is accessed by going through the water in the second (required) room of the subchapter and breaking a smashable wall behind the Strawberry. At the top of the room is the Crystal Heart, but it's out of reach through normal means. At the bottom of the room is a suspicious white block— out of place for the game. This block is one from Super Mario Bros 3, and a secret easter egg from that game is utilized here in Celeste. If you crouch on the white block for about 3 seconds, then you will fall through it and Madeline will now be able to interact with the background. You can then climb up the background stone path to get in reach of the Crystal Heart.

There are 9 Strawberries found in this subchapter.

By going right of the first room of the subchapter, you can arrive at a room with 2 Strawberries in it. This first berry is in the open at the right side of the room. Ride the guided platform straight to the right and dash above the crystal spikes you come across to reach the Strawberry. You can get out of the room by riding the lower guided platform back left and doing the same basic movements as you used to get there.

In the same room as the previous berry is a smashable wall found on the top-right corner. After reaching the right side with the guided platform used previously, fall to the lower guided platform and jump to the right wall, climb it, and dash straight up to break the smashable wall. Hold onto the wall until the guided platform respawns and jump to it, then finish the room.

Above the guided platform in the first room of the subchapter, you can go to a transition on the right. In this room, bounce in the spring and dash to the triggered platform, then as it goes down jump over it to the guided platform right of it. Steer this platform right and you can let yourself fall into the Strawberry and ride up the next triggered platform. Grab onto the triggered platform pointing left when you reach it and ride it to safety.

By going into the lowest transition on the left of the first room of the subchapter, this Strawberry can be seen floating in the middle. To get it, grab the left side of the triggered platform and ride it to the left, then jump off and dash straight up when the time is right and grab the side of the triggered platform when you fall to ride to the end.

This berry will first require you to go to the upper transition on the left side of the first room of the subchapter. To traverse this first room, first land on the guided platform and steer it up a bit such that it fits over the wall but under the small platform. Jump over the platform to land on the guided platform again, then steer it downward. Jump and dash straight up to land on the bridge and then continue left. In the following room, jump and dash to the guided platform and steer it right as it goes up. There will then be a section of green bubbles which is simple to follow, then you can fall down the left side. In this next room, dash into the green bubble and go right, then dash to the guided platform. Move it to the right as it goes up and then jump to the left wall at the top. Jump off this left wall when the guided platform breaks and you can finally get the Strawberry. You can then go right through a previous berry room to make it back to the main hub.

From the very top transition of the first room of the subchapter, you can make it to the other side of a future room in the subchapter. In this area, you have to bounce from the pink cloud onto the top of the nearby guided platform. Ride it left, moving it down or up accordingly when needed, and you can arrive at the left side of the room where you fall into the bottom transition and find this Strawberry hovering above a previous room.

Found in the second room of the subchapter, this Strawberry is found by going through a hidden passage through the water, where it then floats in the open.

Continuing right from the previous berry by breaking a smashable wall will take you to the Cassette room. In that room, dash right through another smashable wall to make it to a room with this Strawberry in it. Jump onto the first triggered platform to activate it, but make sure you jump to the triggered platform pointing upward to move it out of the way so the first triggered platform is able to keep moving. When you reach the right, dash directly upward and grab the right side of the next triggered platform. Land on this platform and carefully dash around the crystals to arrive where this berry resides at the top-left.

Found in the fifth room of the subchapter, this Strawberry hovers over crystal spikes at the right. You must first play through this room normally to get the guided platform on course to cross paths with this berry. Hold onto the right side of the guided platform and climb up when possible, then jump to grab the berry while also landing on top of the guided platform, and move it downward to keep yourself safe to continue right and finish the room.

03 - Celestial Resort (Good Karma Mix)

Staff Quarters is the second subchapter of Chapter 3: Celestial Resort B-Side in Celeste. The subchapter has more action within the resort and partially uses the purple towels and shower background from the A-Side's second subchapter but has no platform-rearranging buttons to use.

This subchapter will largely be the same as the preceding (and succeeding) one, as the B-Side does not feature anything like Huge Mess with its multiple paths and platform-rearranging buttons. Purple towels are sometimes used here as decoration, but function exactly like normal walls. Water will also make a reappearance, but it does little here aside from be more of a decoration.

In this room, you need to jump off the starting ledge and dash straight up to then climb the left wall. Jump onto the sinking platform when you can, then on the next possible cycle jump right and dash diagonally up-right onto the next sinking platform. Do this again to get to the third sinking platform but dash straight ahead, and then again for the last sinking platform to then dash up to the ending ledge.

This room will be all about paying attention to cycles. Walk off the ledge when the closest moving sludge starts going right and then wall jump to the right and climb up. Jump over the floating platform to the right when the moving sludge goes right to do a wall jump to the right again and climb up the next floating platform. Watch the last moving sludge and when it reaches the right side, jump to the right and use your dash to go diagonally up-right and make it to the last floating platform which you should wall jump off of to reach the end.

In this room, playing through it hardly changes depend on the cycle you go at. Jump and dash to the first platform when the moving sludge on it is at the edge, then quickly jump up and dash up-right to the next one when that platform has its moving sludge at the edge. Jump in place as long as you need until dashing up-right into the platform above when the moving sludge on it has just finished moving. Do this again to wall jump to the floating platform to the right, then wall jump back left to collect the dash crystal and dash straight left. In the corridor above, dash diagonally up-left when the bottom two moving sludges go right and climb up until just before the where the other set of moving sludges are. Then, when they move right, jump up and jump to the right to collect a dash crystal which you can use to dash to safety.

The strategy for this room will be fairly repetitive and simple: dash directly right onto the left side of each floating platform, climb on top of it when the moving sludge above it moves up, then jump right and repeat. For the floating platform with spikes on it, you don't need to wait at all just jump over to the right side or directly to the next floating platform.

This is a tall room with moving sludges all across the left side and a large fall surrounded with dust bunnies on the right. Jump to the right and dash straight up when the first moving sludge starts moving down, then grab the area behind it. Jump to the right nearby wall when the moving sludge on it moves up. Then jump left and hold onto that wall until the moving sludge on the right goes down before jumping back to the right. Wait again until the moving sludge on the left above you is about to move up before jumping to the left again, the wall jump to the right quickly. Wait a bit, then jump back left and wall jump again to the right to avoid the moving sludge on the right, then from there you can collect the dash crystal and dash straight up to grab the wall above. You can then just wall jump up above on the designated openings until you jump into the corridor of dust bunnies, where you'll collect a dash crystal as you fall which should be used to dash into the end of the room.

06 - Checking In  07 - Spirit of Hospitality  Cassette Room:  03 - Celestial Resort (8-Bit) 

Start is the first subchapter of Chapter 3: Celestial Resort in Celeste. The subchapter sees the player coming across Mr. Oshiro's resort and meeting him for the first time. Dust bunnies, as well as their moving sludge and circling sludge variants, appear here as the main focus. Some other things introduced in this subchapter are keys, locks, shimmer blocks, sinking platforms, moving platforms, and sludge-spawning tiles. A room with the Cassette to unlock Chapter 3's B-Side can be found, but it's merely a preview and can't be played through.

Madeline starts off outside of the resort and has to traverse a few rooms before reaching the entrance. The resort has to be unlocked with a key located in the fourth room, which can be reached by climbing the floating platforms and dashing across. Another method to reach it is by dashing diagonally upward before entering the screen transition and then dashing again to reach the key from the left. Mr. Oshiro can be summoned in the first room inside the resort by ringing a bell. He then tries to persuade Madeline to stay in the resort, but Madeline refuses and just wants to pass through.

The following rooms can be fairly tricky compared to rooms in the last 2 chapters. Circling sludge makes up much of the challenge and timing your dashes inbetween them can be difficult. Wait until the time you think is best to dash past the circling sludge and then wait until you're comfortable doing it again. When stalling on sinking platforms to time your next move, make sure to be constantly jumping so the platform doesn't fall too far down.

Keys will be required to progress, so the player will need to take detours through other rooms to collect the key and unlock the rest of the area. In the sixteenth room of the subchapter are 4 key tokens to be collected in order to unlock the key-activated platform. Try to walk on the bottom spring as the moving spring on the left is at its left-most point, then bounce into the top-left token and dash to the right. From there, climb the platform and collect the next token, then fall down to grab the token hovering above the dust bunnies and diagonally dash upward to the floating platforms. For a safety net, you might want to wait until the moving platforms with springs are in line to be there when you dash. Lastly, simply jump into the bottom-right key token and climb the wall. The next room is also tricky, so to get it consistently just walk back and forth to avoid the dust bunnies as you sink and then jump to the left and dash directly up. Climb this wall and jump into the dash crystal before timing your dash carefully to make it inbetween the dust bunnies.

There are 11 Strawberries found in this subchapter (not including the Golden Strawberry which spawns in the first room).

Found in the third room of the subchapter, this Strawberry is found floating low in the air below the second moving sludge. Stay bouncing on the spring until the moving sludge is at its highest, then move right and grab the wall after touching the berry and climb up. You can then either dash straight up after jumping off the wall or dash back onto the spring.

Found in the third room of the subchapter, you can only access this berry by going above the main section of the room. At the end of the room, go back left over the roof and back at the left you can see the Strawberry hovering around spikes. Dash diagonally back and forth through this room and the one to the left to reach the platform. Walk off the platform to hit the Strawberry then dash directly to the left.

Found in the sixth room of the subchapter, this Strawberry is floating near a cluster of dust bunnies. Stand on the fourth floating platform (at the top-left of the dust bunnies) and walk off the right at the time the circling sludge moves past the bottom-right of Madeline, then dash straight left to land on the green platform.

A hidden area can be found by walking through the bottom-left of the eighth room of the subchapter (which has the second key of the subchapter). In the room you arrive in, walk into the spring on the floor and grab onto the falling platform. When this platform starts falling, jump and grab the next falling platform, then do it again for the last one. Dash left after this third falling platform starts to fall. In the room to the left, this Strawberry is found. Jump left when the moving sludge on the right is moving up, wait a bit, then jump left again and dash directly left without touching the disappearing platform. Then, jump off the wall after claiming the Strawberry and you can make it back by jumping and dashing when you wish.

To get to this berry, follow the same route to reach the previous berry. A smashable wall is found on the ceiling of the room where the 4th berry is located in, so dash into this ceiling to continue. In the next room, jump and dash straight left to get past the narrow gap with the dust bunnies. Touch the dash crystal and make your way up the corridor, then dash to the left at the top and slide down the left wall, jumping before you land in the dust bunnies, and do the same for the wall you land at. After a transition from a previous room, another room has to be completed. Dash directly into both dash crystals and wait before dashing the last time underneath the floating dust bunny. After this, you can go left to find the Strawberry in a balcony over a previous room.

In the ninth room of the subchapter, a vertical transition can be seen to the top-left of where Mr. Oshiro is waiting. Wait on the last sinking platform to jump to the floating platform furthest to the right, then climb up and jump off the right side and dash diagonally upward to the right to climb the corridor. In this room above, the strategy is just dashing directly into every dash crystal. Slide down the right wall to grab the Strawberry and jump off the wall, then dash back to the left to get back to safety.

In the eleventh room of the subchapter, a Winged Strawberry is seen at the end. Climb up the first platform and jump over to get to the next one. Jump to the third platform to climb up and jump over it, then stick to the right side of the fourth platform and jump off. From there, grab the berry.

Found in the fourteenth room of the subchapter, this Strawberry is seen floating underneath the leftmost sinking platform. Aim to run off the platform while both circling sludges are far away and grab the wall until you're comfortable dashing out of the pit to climb to safety.

In the fifteenth room of the subchapter, a hidden path can be found above where you start. Upon entering the room, you should first walk into the hole and dash to the left to land on the platform. Go right and then dash left again and slide down the wall to then jump off and land on another, lower platform. Jump into the gap inbetween the dust bunnies and dash left, then you can reach the Strawberry. However, you need to get out of the area before being able to claim the Strawberry. Start climbing the left wall and dash to any nearby disappearing platform to refresh your stamina when needed.

Found in the fifteenth room of the subchapter, this Strawberry is floating at the top over some spikes. You have to approach this berry carefully to not make your return impossible due to overlapping with sludge-spawning tiles you already went past. From the start of the room, jump across the first set of dust bunnies and climb the wall you reach. Jump off this wall and dash over the next wall to reach the next platform. Jump to the floating platform and then jump at the top to the other side, then wall jump to the other floating platform. This is the trickiest part, and it has to be done quickly. Jump to the platform which the berry is hovering over, then jump up and dash to the left. To survive, wall jump off the right side of the very first wall you climbed over and climb up right left side of the wall opposite of it. To continue the room without a death, do a wall jump off the left and dash diagonally up-right to grab the rightmost floating platform, then jump over that to move on.

On the right side of the fifteenth room of the subchapter, a smashable wall is located on the floor. This will take you to a spot above a previous room with 2 moving sludges in a narrow corridor. Start running right as soon as the moving sludge on the floor starts moving right, then shortly after jump and dash right to reach the berry. Standing on the elevated floor where the Strawberry resided, dash to the left as soon as the moving sludge on the floor starts moving right and continue left quickly to get out.

03 - Celestial Resort (Good Karma Mix)

Start is the first subchapter of Chapter 3: Celestial Resort B-Side in Celeste. The subchapter returns the player to the entrance of Mr. Oshiro's resort and has them enter in. There's a small secret found in this subchapter to get a glimpse at some birds using skull binoculars.

Though in the first two rooms there aren't any sludge-related enemies to be seen, in the third room the player enters into the hotel and from there tons of these sludges will be in the rest of the rooms. The third room of the subchapter will focus on circling sludges, while the rest of the following rooms will use many moving sludges all across.

This room will just have you jump over the gap and dash straight to the right, grabbing the ledge if needed, and reaching the end.

In this room, you'll need to do a lot of wrap-around wall jump to descend while dodging spikes. Jump on the spring and do a diagonal up-right dash to the right side of the top floating platform. Wall jump to the right, then start moving back left as you approach the next one and repeat until reaching the dash crystal. It's entirely possible to also just go underneath the first two floating platforms and dash into the third one, saving a bit of time. After touching the dash crystal, dash diagonally up-right and you can either wall jump to the left and then back right or just climb up this floating platform and jump over it to the right. From there just get over the last floating platform and wall jump off, then you're at the door to the hotel.

There are very many circling sludges in this room and stamina will be tight here. Jump to the first platform when it's safe, then wait until you can jump and dash diagonally up-right to grab the platform up above, then climb on top of it. After the circling sludge around you passes, jump right and dash straight right to climb the platform you reach, then jump over the sludge on top of it and grab its right side when it's safe to do so. When the coast is clear, jump to the next floating platform and again climb it and jump over the sludge on top, then jump to the next floating platform where it's safe to stand. In this next section, you'll want to be quick. Jump and dash up-right to climb the floating platform above and jump to the right side of it when you can. Grab on and wait until you can jump to the next nearby platform, where you should do the same thing. Then, before you run out of stamina, jump to the last platform, which will fall if you wait too long so just get off it quick and you've finished the room.

Watch the first two moving sludges until they're both at their highest, and when they are you should jump to the wall and do a wall jump off, then swiftly do another off the left wall to go all the way right and reach the bottom of the right side of the floating platform. Quickly jump off to the right and dash straight up, then jump to the right side and grab the wall while collecting the dash crystal. Watching to your right now, wait until the nearby two moving sludges reach their lowest point to fall down and dash diagonally up-right and grab the platform. When the moving sludge on the left goes back up, jump to its wall, then wall jump back to the right and weave inbetween the other two moving sludges to then wall jump off the floating platform and reach the end of the room.

Walk into the spring and dash up-right and fall to the dash crystal. When you reach the dash crystal, dash in any direction that will prevent you from hitting a moving sludge and hold onto the wall. Do wall jumps back and forth until the dash crystal comes back, then time your wall jumps to get over a moving sludge as it goes down to allow yourself to climb up and dash up-right over the pile of sludge above. Do your dash when the moving sludges in the right corridor are both at the edges. Then, climb up the right wall to move past the moving sludge right as it goes left and then jump up and dash to the right. Do your dash when the moving sludge at the right of your position starts to move left and hold right as much as possible. Then, as you fall, hold left to dodge the other moving sludge and you'll be safe.

In this room, cycles are very inconsistent, so for the safest way to line yourself up you should bounce off the first spring and then dash diagonally up-right to grab the wall. From here, wait until the moving platform reaches the left and the moving sludge is not going left to fall onto the moving platform and bounce on the spring. For the bottom key token, find a time to fall in the middle when both the moving platform and moving sludge won't be there, then dash straight to the left or right and hold the wall until you can jump up to the moving platform safely. For the key token above you, stall constantly by doing a straight upward dash and landing back on the spring until you find a moment to dash up above a moving sludge and wall jump to the key token, then fall and land on the moving spring again. After these two key tokens have been collected, get the third and last one at the top right by bouncing up with the spring to then climb up the left side. When you can, jump to the right and dash straight right into the key token and grab the wall. When the moving sludge goes down, jump over it and then fall back to the right to reach the end of the room.

By going to the left of the first room of the subchapter, a secret room is reached. This room seems pretty barren, having only a platform far to the left with spikes on top of it. By doing a wavedash to the left, you can get to this platform and use your dash to get across the spikes. Another platform left of the spiked one can be reached which just has skull binoculars on it. By viewing it and holding left for a few seconds, you'll eventually come across a platform with some birds on it at the far-left side of the room. Getting back from this area is barely possible with a wavedash at the right edge and a diagonal up-right dash to just be able to reach the ledge you started at and climb up it. Notably, if you go to this room and die, the Golden Strawberry will no longer spawn in the first room of the subchapter unless you restart the chapter. This doesn't happen if you bring the Golden Strawberry into this room, though.

Start is the first subchapter of Chapter 8: Core in Celeste. The subchapter will be short and mainly exist to block the player's progress with a heart gate which only opens if they have at least 4 Crystal Hearts. Additionally, the subchapter will showcase the main gimmick of Core, being the change in dashing. In this subchapter, the Old Woman is shown to be the one who introduces Madeline to the Core and she mentions the mountain's strange powers affecting her differently.

When starting up the chapter, a screen pops up to announce this takes place one year after the events of Chapter 7 and the Epilogue. From the first room, seen to the left will be a room with Madeline's car like in the Prologue. The Old Woman and her Bird will be to the right and she tells Madeline to follow her into the cave. Midway into the second room of the subchapter, Core's gimmick of not giving back a dash when landing will activate and task the player with a simple section to see how it works. In the third room, the Old Woman talks to Madeline about how the mountain's powers will affect her in strange ways, and then to the right of this cutscene is the first heart gate of the game. If the player has collected at least 4 Crystal Hearts (blue ones from A-Side or red ones from B-Side), then it will open and give access to the next subchapter.

There are no Strawberries found in this subchapter.

Start is the first subchapter of Chapter 8: Core B-Side in Celeste. The subchapter is just an entrance into the real chapter which prevents the player from entering without having obtained 15 Crystal Hearts.

There are just two rooms in this subchapter which are empty hallways with nothing to kill the player. The second room has a gate which will open if the player has the Crystal Hearts from every A-Side and every preceding B-Side.

This room has no obstacles, so just go to the right and say hi to the Bird above as you go.

There are also no obstacles in this room, so if you have all the needed Crystal Hearts then walk up to the gate and wait for it to open, then go into the real beginning of the B-Side. If not, leave this subchapter and go get them.

Start can refer to the starting checkpoint of the following chapters:

Start (Celestial Resort B-Side)

Start is the first subchapter of Chapter 1: Forsaken City in Celeste. The subchapter introduces basic mechanics, including spikes, springs, disappearing platforms, and smashable walls. Red Strawberries also first appear here in both normal and winged form. Traffic light blocks, Forsaken City's signature mechanic, are introduced in this subchapter too. There are no story moments found in this subchapter.

There are only 6 screens mandatory to get through in this subchapter, all of which are fairly simple. By dashing diagonally upward, the player can easily make it through these screens. Make sure not to launch Madeline into the spikes in the fourth room by simply not moving while on the traffic light block.

While attempting to do this chapter without dashing to get the Winged Golden Strawberry, the rooms become more challenging. Aside from the second room, the solution is self-explanatory and won't end up very difficult without dashing. In the second room, the jump normally appears impossible as jumping from the height of your climb doesn't make it to the other side of the gap. The trick to doing this room is using the 'spike jump', a tech which allows you to jump from higher than usual. To do this you must reach the top of your climb's height and jump up, then you can jump off the wall as you descend higher than you could from simply jumping while climbing. This barely allows you to bypass the spikes.

There are 6 Strawberries found in this subchapter (not including the Golden Strawberry which spawns in the first room).

Found in the second room of the subchapter, this is likely the simplest Strawberry you'll get. Bounce off the spring in this room and you can move slightly left and dash directly upward to collect it.

Found in the third room of the subchapter, you can find this Strawberry at the end of the room hovering above some spikes. Run off the platform near it and dash directly upward as soon as you touch the berry, then move to the right and climb up the wall for the safest grab.

Found in the fifth room of the subchapter, this is the first Winged Strawberry of the game. Instead of rushing through this room, you can get to the top without needing to dash with simple jumps and climbing the wall from the right, then walking off the platform.

Found in a hidden room to the left of the sixth room of the subchapter, this is a more complicated Strawberry to collect than the last few. You can either wall jump on the metallic wall or dash directly upward after climbing briefly and jumping. From here, walk on the spring and continue left, then keep yourself inbetween the walls and dash to the right before falling in the spikes to collect the berry.

Found in the sixth room of the subchapter, you must use the momentum from being launched up by the traffic light block and move yourself to the left to grab the floating platform. From there, climb a bit and dash in the direction of the Strawberry.

Found in a hidden room to the right of the sixth room of the subchapter accessed by dashing into the block of ice, this Strawberry can be slightly tricky. You have to fall between the 2 spiked walls and then from there either grab the left wall and jump from there into a diagonal upward dash or dash without needing to touch the wall to land on the traffic light block. After landing, it will take you right to the berry where you can collect it and make it back by simply dashing diagonally through the bridge.

01 - Forsaken City (Sever the Skyline Mix)

Start is the first subchapter of Chapter 1: Forsaken City B-Side in Celeste. The subchapter just has a few simple sections, and it brings back traffic light blocks and other basic mechanics.

Being the first B-Side subchapter in the game, this subchapter won't be nearly as difficult as later ones. This subchapter just serves to show the new ways that B-Sides can challenge the player. For example, the second and third rooms will utilize moving traffic light blocks out of the way to get behind them. The fifth room of the subchapter also makes the player do some jumps across a chasm with no dash available.

This room will be reminiscent of the first room in the A-Side, but the approach for it is very different. To get across the pit, you'll need to have your dash by the end of the room. This is accomplished by first climbing up the first wall, then straight up to jump off the wall above to the right. You'll then need to do a wall jump off the right side of both elevated sections on the ground, then after the second one you can do a diagonal up-right dash to make it to the bridge.

First, you should hit the climb button against the traffic light block at the beginning of the room to cause it to move up but release it right after. Jump to the wall and hold onto it as you wait for the traffic light block to appear, then when it gets back to its original position, grab its right side. Ride it up, but don't release the climb button until it comes to a complete stop. When it stops, jump to the right and do a wall jump off the left ledge to be able to grab the other traffic light block. Jump over the top of this traffic light block as it starts to move back down and dash to the end section of the room.

In this room, you'll need to dash straight up after jumping right from the starting section, then grab the wall. Grab onto the traffic light block to make it move up, then jump back to the wall, then jump back right to grab the other traffic light block. Jump over the top of it to fall down to the lower section, then do a wall jump to the other traffic light block and hold onto it until it arrives at the right, where you can then jump up and keep wall jumping to the top.

This room will just have traffic light blocks on a diagonal path which you'll need to use the momentum of to get over floating platforms full of spikes. For all of the three traffic light blocks, you need to grab the left side, then release the climb button once it reaches the top to get a big vertical boost, then hold right to repeat on the next one until eventually making it to the end where you're free to dash diagonally up-right when the time's right and wall jump up the corridor.

This room has some skull binoculars available to preview the room, if needed. In this room, you'll need to wall jump and then dash upward to grab onto the right side of the traffic light block, then when it reaches the right side, you must release the button and hold right to be boosted far to the right and arrive at the next section. From the floating platform section you arrive at, jump to the left and grab the right side of the closer tiny platform. Jump above the platform and continue left to grab the other tiny platform. Jump from there back right and do a wall jump off of the first floating platform's left side. This will allow you to easily get over to the left side of the further floating platform, and after that you can jump to the area above and collect the dash crystal. You can then go right from that area and dash diagonally up-right over the cluster of spikes and arrive at the end.

09 - Golden  Cassette Room:  04 - Golden Ridge (8-Bit) 

Start is the first subchapter of Chapter 4: Golden Ridge in Celeste. The subchapter introduces some of Chapter 4's signature mechanics such as clouds (both white and pink), green bubbles, and wind. Crystals and crystal spikes are also first seen in the game in this subchapter. The Cassette to unlock Chapter 4's B-Side can be obtained in this subchapter. The Old Woman from the Prologue makes a return in this subchapter and has a conversation with Madeline about her travels so far.

The player will be traversing across many rooms with much of the floor being gone, slowly being introduced to different objects as the rooms go on. One thing to know about wind in this game is that Madeline's physics are completely unaffected by it while dashing. In the fifth room of the subchapter, destroying smashable walls by smashing into them with green bubbles is utilized. The eighth room of the subchapter has the player going with the wind to get more distance. This allows you to jump across the gaps of crystal spikes while keeping the ability to dash.

The Cassette room can be found in a secret area accessed by going to the top-left of the tenth room of the subchapter. Jump up the clouds and then go back left and dash up to reach a transition. This next room with have a seeded Strawberry to be obtained, but just continuing left of this room reaches the room with the Cassette in it.

There are 8 Strawberries found in this subchapter (not including the Golden Strawberry which spawns in the first room).

Found in the third room of the subchapter, this Strawberry is hidden inside a wall. You're able to climb and dash up above the left side of the room and in the gap opposite of the wall where the bird is resting, the Strawberry is found.

Found in the fourth room of the subchapter, the berry is seen floating near the bottom of the screen by a wall. Jump up the ledge nearby it and fall to get the Strawberry, then wall jump and dash straight up to get back on the ledge.

Found in the fifth room of the subchapter, this Strawberry is hovering inbetween some crystal spikes. To collect the berry, direct the green bubble under it upward and climb the smashable wall to then dash straight up to reach it, then finish the room like normal.

Found in the sixth room of the subchapter, this Strawberry can be found at the end of the room floating in under a ledge. Jump off the left wall to bounce up on the cloud and reach the berry, then move back to the left and bounce back to safety.

Found in the eighth room of the subchapter, this berry seems tricky to get as going towards it puts you against the wind. Remember that you can beat this room without a dash at all, so what you must do is fall down the corridor in the middle and dash left to get to the Strawberry. Wall jump off the wall that the berry was next to and use your jumps and climbs carefully to not run out of stamina as you get back up.

In the ninth room of the subchapter, a smashable wall is seen. Jump left into it and dash straight up to find the Strawberry.

By going to the top-left transition of the tenth room of the subchapter (in the room before the Cassette room) a room with a seeded Strawberry is reached. After collecting one Strawberry Seed, wind will start to blow to the left. First you should grab the rightmost seed, then jump off the right wall and dash diagonally up-left and land on the spring. Bounce up the spring and dash straight up for the next seed, then climb the platform floating left off the spring and jump carefully over it to collect the third seed to the bottom-left of it before dashing diagonally again. Using the wind to push you left, jump up the left corridor off the wall to reach the last seed.

Found in the eleventh room of the subchapter, this Strawberry is floating by a platform far away from the main wall. When the wind starts blowing, jump up the right wall as much as possible, then dash to the right side of the floating platform and jump above it to grab the berry just as the winds starts blowing again, then pull yourself right as soon as possible.

04 - Golden Ridge (Golden Feather Mix)

Start is the first subchapter of Chapter 4: Golden Ridge B-Side in Celeste. The subchapter reintroduces the player back to the chapter and brings back a few of the chapter's signature mechanics.

Aside from a notable absence of wind, this subchapter rapid-fire introduces most of the objects mainly seen in chapter 4, most notably being green bubbles, guided platforms, and triggered platforms. This subchapter will be very short, though, and the gimmicks seen are fairly rudimentary.

There are many green bubbles across this room above a bottomless pit and with crystal spikes all around. Precise aiming of the green bubbles and directional dashes is important here, but luckily, it's not very strict. To start, jump and dash into the first green bubble and launch it straight up, then dash straight right. Take the next green bubble right, and then the one after that down-right. After popping out of this green bubble, dash diagonally up-right into another green bubble, then launch that one straight up. The next green bubble you arrive in should be aiming up-right, then after popping out you need to fall a bit before dashing right into the last green bubble which is underneath the crystal spikes, then take that one straight right to then dash straight up and climb the ledge.

This room mainly consists of only crystals and moving platforms going either horizontally or vertically. Jump onto the first moving platform when it reaches the left side, then when it goes back right, do a small jump on it to stall for a bit and then dash diagonally up-right to land back on it. From there, dash diagonally up-right again to get over a crystal and land on the next moving platform, and after landing on this moving platform you should jump high to the right and dash up-right to make it to another moving platform. Ride this one up, then do another jump to the right and dash up-right to land on the last moving platform. For this last moving platform, repeat the same process used on the first one and then at the end dash straight up and climb the ending ledge to avoid the wall of crystal spikes.

Jump and dash into the first green bubble and ride it upward, then climb up the wall on the right. Jump above the wall and dash straight right into the smashable wall, then fall down into the green bubble below. Aim this green bubble straight up and dash up-right when you pop out of it to make it to an area very similar to one seen in Forsaken City's B-Side. Being careful with your stamina, climb up the right section of the corridor and jump up to the small pillar, then climb up it too. Jump to the right and then climb the last pillar and jump over it again to make it into a green bubble, which you should launch straight up. Jump to the left off of the small section of the wall above and do so again off the pillar below before using your regained dash to break the smashable wall. After this, just take the three green bubbles all to the right and climb up the ledge at the end. A small skip can be done in this room by climbing up the left side after popping out of the second green bubble, then jumping to the tiny section above the crystals and grabbing it to then jump over to the right again while still having your dash, allowing you to break the smashable wall immediately and not have to go up for another green bubble.

The primary goal of this room will be navigating a guided platform to the end. Bounce on the spring and dash up-right to land on the guided platform, then do another dash diagonally up-right after jumping to land back on it while it passes through some crystals. Quickly start moving it downward after you land on it so you can dodge the crystals above, then bring it back up to slot it through the gap in the wall to the right. Jump up over the wall, then move the guided platform down so it fits into the next section of the wall, then jump over that wall to land back on the guided platform. Wait a bit, then move it up again for one more wall gap and jump over this one as well, then bring the guided platform down a lot for another wall gap. While it's moving through this area below, you'll need to wall jump and dash up into the green bubble above which you should aim up-right. After popping out of it you should arrive in another green bubble, which should be aimed straight right to allow you to dash up-right and avoid all crystals so you can land back on the guided platform. Watch for the incoming section and dash straight up into it when you arrive at it. Climb the left side of the wall until you can jump into the green bubble. Aim the green bubble right and then move yourself left a bit before dashing straight to the right to land on the guided platform once again. Then, the end will be in reach.

This room, as opposed to the last one, will be bringing a triggered platform throughout it. Jump and dash to the right and grab onto it, then start climbing up when you pass the first set of crystals. From there, jump to the left wall and wait a bit before jumping into the green bubble bringing it to the right. Move left as you fall, then dash into the green bubble below and go right into the other green bubble below. Then, aim the last green bubble up-right and dash diagonally up-right to then climb up the triggered platform and arrive at the end of the room.

Start is the first subchapter of Chapter 5: Mirror Temple in Celeste. The subchapter starts with Madeline and Theo examining the entrance to a temple before venturing in. Madeline is unsure about entering, but Theo is feeling adventurous to post pictures of the temple to his InstaPix account. In the subchapter, the player will have many paths to cross to eventually find the key which gives further access to a dark room which is locked off that leads to the next subchapter. A few of Chapter 5's gimmicks are introduced here including swap blocks, red bubbles, blue torches, dash switches, temple gates, and blades. In the third room of the subchapter, Madeline can find Theo's phone lying on the floor at the top, implying he's gone missing.

Once entering the temple, there will be a room with tiny corridors and one of them must utilize a Madeline's smaller hitbox while dashing to squeeze through. Many objects used further in this chapter are introduced in quick succession at the start before arriving at a big hub room. Going up will lead to progression and the path to the required key, while going down will lead to further paths leading to berry rooms.

After taking the red bubble up above the fifth room of the subchapter, it's possible to do a very precisely do a hyperdash to get to the right transition of the sixth room. The intended method, however, is to go left for a bit to reach a red bubble which can then be taken back to the right and past the crystals. From there it's another room where the player has to get to a red bubble at the bottom and go left to return to the sixth room of the subchapter in the area containing the key. Take this key to a right transition of the fifth room to unlock the path to finish the dark room.

There are 12 Strawberries found in this subchapter (not including the Golden Strawberry which spawns in the first room).

By going left of the first room of the subchapter, you can find the area seen at the end of Chapter 4 with the gondola at the ledge. If you walk off this ledge and then head back right, do a dash diagonally up-right to get into the suspicious hole found in the mountain and a hidden area with this Strawberry is found.

Found in the fifth room of the subchapter, there is a hidden smashable wall to the left of the red bubble which you normally would use to get to the upper section of the subchapter. The Strawberry is found behind this smashable wall.

Found in the fifth room of the subchapter, this Strawberry can be found in the top-left. To get to it, first use the uppermost red bubble to go left and then grab the wall. Jump and grab the next piece of the wall on the left, then from here jump and climb the right wall. Wall jump off the top and collect the berry, then fall through a gap on the left before dashing directly right to make it back to safety.

Go from the lower section of the fifth room of the subchapter to the bottom-left to find a room with this Strawberry. To make it over to the Strawberry, jump onto the spring on the swap block, then dash to the left to bounce on it again before grabbing the wall and grabbing the berry. Dash diagonally up-right such that you go above where the swap block is going to arrive, then bounce on the spring. Move right to land on the spring again as it moves back right, then you can dash right and climb up to the starting area.

Go to the right of the room of the previous berry to find another room which contains a berry. This Strawberry will be very linear to collect, simply use the red bubble to go up, dash right at the top, take the other red bubble left, then dash directly down at the gap at the left.

Enter the bottom-right transition of the fifth room of the subchapter to reach a room with this berry. Jump on top of the first swap block, then for the next one dash straight up inbetween the two swap blocks, then land below where the swap block just moved away from. Quickly dash again and make it to below the third swap block, and you can reach the Strawberry. Dash again to move the swap block and return left with one more dash. Jump up and dash directly up inbetween the first and second swap block and grab onto the second one, then jump off it to the left to make it back.

Two rooms below the fifth room of the subchapter, this Strawberry can be found floating in the top middle around many crystals. You'll need to utilize swap block momentum to collect this berry. Stand on either the left or right swap block (it works with both) and face towards the berry. Hit dash and immediately move towards the berry and you'll be shot far past it while grabbing it in the process and landing safely.

By going to the left transition of two rooms below the fifth room of the subchapter, there's a room with this Strawberry. First jump and dash into where the swap block will arrive, then cling onto it. Collect the dash crystal and hold onto the wall. For a consistent strategy, jump off the wall and dash directly up back into the dash crystal, then dash directly left to grab the other swap block. Jump off of this one to make it to the Strawberry. For a safe return back, you can jump to the right and just keep going right with a diagonally up-right dash to grab the ledge. If you don't trust this, wall jumping off of the left swap block gives more safety.

By going to the right transition of two rooms below the fifth room of the subchapter, there's a room with this Strawberry. The first step to collecting this berry is to stand on the swap block lined up with the vertical gap between the crystals. Dash directly downward onto this swap block, then jump just after to get a huge boost upward allowing you to dash directly up into the red bubble. Take this red bubble right and dash straight down onto the Strawberry and steer yourself to the left to enter another red bubble. Ride this to the right and dash down when you reach the gap to the lower area, and you can safely claim this berry.

From the sixth room of the subchapter, you need to go up to the top transition to find the room with this Strawberry. In order to do this, you could just wall jump off the left area to the dash directly up and grab the right side of the floating platform, then from there jump right onto the swap block and boost yourself up with a jump at the end of its return. In the room above, first jump and dash diagonally up-right above where the first swap block will move to, then grab its right side. Jump off into the dash crystal and grab the other swap block. Jump off of this swap block and then make a diagonally up-right dash to grab onto it on the other side of the crystal, allowing you to get to the top and collect the Strawberry.

Go to the left of the eighth room of the subchapter by riding a red bubble left to reach another room where the berry will be floating on the left side. Jump over the swap block and grab its left side, then dash into it. At the left side, jump off the swap block and grab the Strawberry and hit the dash crystal, then dash right and grab the swap block to go back.

In the ninth room of the subchapter, there's a hidden area found inside the central platform. Notice the chunk of the platform which is dented inward and dash directly up from the red bubble after riding it to the left a bit. In this area is a dash switch which unlock a temple gate in a hidden lower area of the room. Hit this dash switch then finish the room like normal. Ride the red bubble in the following room to the right, then up. There will be a couple key tokens to collect in the next room which unlock a temple gate guarding the berry. For the left key token, ride the bottom red bubble up, then dash out to enter the second red bubble and aim that one up-left into the next red bubble. Aim this red bubble down, then dash directly right and climb the wall. For the right key token, ride the second red bubble up-right and at the end dash directly right to reach the right red bubble. Aim this one at the key token and hold onto the wall after collecting it until the red bubble respawns, after which you should ride it back left. Try to fall inside the initial gap, using a direct upward dash to reposition yourself if you need. Then you can go right from the starting area and claim the Strawberry.

05 - Mirror Temple (Mirror Magic Mix)

Start is the first subchapter of Chapter 5: Mirror Temple B-Side in Celeste. The subchapter is short and contains a few small challenges mostly using red bubbles as well as a secret nod to Chapter 4 in the first room.

With only three rooms of challenges, this is one of the shortest subchapters in the entire game. The player enters the temple from the first room and then has a couple rooms involving red bubble timing and then one room using swap block momentum to complete it. Not many objects are present in this subchapter.

This first room you spawn in just has a ledge hanging to the left and a straight path to the right to enter the next room. In this room, far to the left side, is a small island somewhat resembling the ground of chapter 4 with a few birds on it which fly away shortly after you arrive at it. To get to it, you just need to enter the second room and take the first red bubble to the left, then you can come back with a red bubble found over there. One thing to note is that if the Golden Strawberry appears in this level, you'll have no way to reach this secret area without collecting it on the way.

A small screen with pillars of spikes and red bubbles in many directions. Simply enter the first red bubble and take it straight right, then dash straight up into the dash switch. After this, you'll fall down into the red bubble below, which should be aimed straight up. After hitting the ceiling, you'll fall a bit before being able to dash straight right into the last red bubble and take it up-right to complete the room.

This room is very long and will mostly compose of riding red bubbles while narrowly dodging spikes. Take the first red bubble right and dash either straight up or straight down before hitting the spiked pillar and land in the red bubble below, which will then be taken right. Once you are directly below the next red bubble, dash straight up into it and take it to the right. Do a diagonally up-right dash out of this red bubble before crashing into the spiked platform and keep moving right to land in another red bubble. Aim this red bubble up-right, then dash down-right when possible into another red bubble. This red bubble should go right for a bit before you'll need to do one more dash straight up into the last red bubble, also needing to be taken straight right. You can dash down-right out of this red bubble to land on the ledge at the end before hitting the spikes on the right.

In this room, you'll need good knowledge of swap block momentum. Stand on the first swap block and dash down onto it and do a jump to get a big boost up over the pillar. Keep moving right, then dash straight left into the swap block below and hit the jump button to get a huge boost to the right, and with that you can climb the swap block on the right and jump over it to reach the end.

03 - Resurrections  Cassette Room:  02 - Old Site (8-Bit)  Cutscene:  10 - Shattered Mirror 

Start is the first subchapter of Chapter 2: Old Site in Celeste. The subchapter introduces Chapter 2's main gimmick— space blocks. They first appear unpowered before appearing powered everywhere else after reaching the subchapter's cutscene. Badeline is first seen in the game in the shattered mirror cutscene breaking into her physical form. Strawberry Seeds appear here for the first time as well. The Crystal Heart of Chapter 2 and the Cassette to unlock Chapter 2's B-Side can both be obtained in this subchapter.

Starting off, the space blocks are all deactivated and just functionally serve as normal walls. After a few rooms of virtually no challenge you can get to the bottom of the tall fourth room and you'll need to continue right after breaking a smashable wall. After a couple more spike-filled rooms you encounter a mirror. When you pass by it, a Part of You will be moving in the opposite direction, and when Madeline stops to examine it, the mirror will break and Badeline will be released in her physical form. After this, all space blocks can now be used, and dashing through them gives access to much of the level unavailable before. By going back to the second room of the subchapter, a space block can be dashed up to get into the top transition and, after one more room, finish the subchapter.

The Crystal Heart of this chapter is found by going up from the very first room of the chapter. By using the fact that your dash refreshes when going through a screen transition, you can diagonally dash upward back and forth through the screens to get to the top. After ascending a few more rooms, the Crystal Heart will be there to be collected.

The Cassette room is found underneath the fourth room of the subchapter by dashing through the space block on the floor of this tall room after the mirror has been shattered.

There are 9 Strawberries found in this subchapter (not including the Golden Strawberry which spawns in the first room).

This Strawberry is found in the same room as the mirror, but out of view without the use of Skull Binoculars. To reach it, you need to stay on the falling platform in the previous room and then go right into a hidden gap which allows you to grab the berry.

Found in the eighth room of the subchapter (to the top-left of the mirror room), this Strawberry can be found in a hidden area above the middle of the 3 space blocks, which you can dash upward through said space block to reach.

This will be the first seeded Strawberry of the game. To collect these berries, you must not touch the floor before collecting all of the Strawberry Seeds. The room where it's found in is a tall room accessed from the upper 2 of 3 left transitions in the fourth room of the subchapter. Keep yourself airborne by dashing into any nearby space blocks as they move and you can get all the seeds.

Found in a room below the previous berry's room (past a smashable wall on the floor), or from the bottom left transition in the fourth room of the subchapter, this Strawberry will be simple if approached from the former route. It is possible to get the distance to grab this berry from below, but you should be smashing the floor in the room above to access it with no challenge.

Found in the fourth room of the subchapter, this Strawberry must be carefully approached. It is hovering in the upper area surrounded by many spikes and the collect it you must position yourself to diagonally dash downward into the area it's in, then either quickly dash straight upward or grab the wall, then dash straight upward to be in the safety to collect the Strawberry.

By going to the transition right of where the previous berry is located, the 6th berry of the subchapter is seen. Dash upward diagonally to land yourself on the traffic light block and then dash directly right so you'll be stopped while the traffic light block is also stopped on the right. Dash from there to the Strawberry and climb up to safety.

To the room right of the previous berry's room is where this Strawberry is found. The safest approach is to dash right after jumping into the space block, then dashing diagonally upward into the next and then grabbing the wall. After collecting the Strawberry, climb higher and then dash left twice through the space blocks to make it back.

Hidden in the floor of berry 6's room is a transition. Line yourself up with the hole and dash straight down to get in. This will take you to a hidden tunnel above a previous room which contains this Strawberry.

This Strawberry is found by backtracking to the second room of the subchapter and going straight up the space block to then go right and arrive above the third room of the subchapter. To collect the berry, dash directly right into the upper space block and then the lower one. Climb up to get the berry, then dash left twice and climb the wall as you return to claim the Strawberry.

02 - Old Site (Black Moonrise Mix)

Start is the first subchapter of Chapter 2: Old Site B-Side in Celeste. The subchapter teaches the player about the space block jump technique and has a few rooms dedicated to using it.

Unlike in the A-Side, there's no section of this level with deactivated space blocks. The first room appears just like the A-Sides first room, but afterward all of the rooms will have space blocks. In the third room of the subchapter, the Bird will teach the player how to do a space block jump (by hitting the jump button right before exiting the space block) to get a boost forward required to complete the room as well as most following ones.

As this is just the campfire room like in the A-Side, there are no challenges here.

This room has a few space blocks covered in spikes aside from the bottom. Treat them somewhat like dash crystals here and dash straight up through the first one, then move right in the air to be able to wall jump to the right off the floating platform and do another straight up dash through the other space block, then dash straight to the right into the last space block.

The Bird will appear in this room to give a teaching element of how to do the space block jump. In this room, you need to just dash through the space block and jump out of it to get the distance required to dash straight up into the other space block and complete the room.

In this room, there are just two space blocks which can be easily reached and passed through by using a space block jump for both of them, allowing easy access to the end corridor.

At the start of this room, a space block jump must be done from the first space block. Then, you can do a diagonal dash up-right into the dash crystal which allows you to dash through the other space block. Be sure to do a space block jump out of this one and then dash straight up through the last space block to finish the room.

Two space block jumps must be done at the start of this room to reach a floating platform, which you can then climb up and jump over to grab the right side. Jump off of the right side and dash straight up to reach the right side of the ceiling indent. Jump off of there to the right and you'll be able to collect a dash crystal and climb up the floating platform on the right. Lastly, jump over to the right of this floating platform to encounter one last space block, which you do a space block jump out of to reach the end corridor with a straight upward dash.

Starting Cutscene: 13 - Madeline and Theo 14 - Starjump

Start is the first subchapter of Chapter 6: Reflection in Celeste. The subchapter introduces a recurring mechanic for the rest of the game, being feathers (as well as their trapped feathers counterpart). Aside from that, the beginning and ending of the one and only room in the subchapter will have Madeline talk to Theo and Badeline respectively. At the end of her conversation with Badeline, Madeline is dragged down by Badeline's vines and flung to the bottom of the mountain and shattering crystals of other rooms along the way before arriving in the next subchapter.

Madeline carries Theo's body over to a campfire and they sit around it until nighttime when Theo wakes up. In the following cutscene, there are many sets of dialogue options for the player to choose between for both Madeline and Theo. They talk about both of their travels and life experiences and the player can decide which they talk about first or at all. Eventually, Madeline will choose to go to sleep and Theo will take a selfie of them both. 

After this cutscene is a single large vertical room for gameplay where the player can test out the new golden feathers to fly up with. There's nothing in this subchapter which can cause Madeline to die. At the top of the room, Badeline will split from Madeline's body and Madeline will tell her how she doesn't need her anymore, causing Badeline to go into a fit of rage. Madeline tries to calm down by thinking of a feather and a minigame will play out like the one at the end of Chapter 4: Golden Ridge, however this time it doesn't work as Badeline slashes the feather in two. Badeline then drags Madeline to the bottom of the room and she's flung all the way down to the base of the mountain, which is the end of the subchapter.

There are no Strawberries found in this subchapter.

06 - Reflection (Center of the Earth Mix)

Start is the first subchapter of Chapter 6: Reflection B-Side in Celeste. The subchapter uses most of the chapter's objects in difficult challenges and has no other unique gimmicks.

Unlike the A-Side, this level doesn't start with any northern lights segment and brings the player straight into the jungle segment. Angry platforms, feathers, and bumpers are heavily used in this subchapter in some tricky sections, sometimes altogether in a room which means mastery of the physics of all three of them is needed.

This room has some corridors laced with crystals and the only way to make it up is by guiding an angry platform which you start on. Dash into the angry platform's left side and land back on it after the bounce off. Then, shortly after, dash downward onto the angry platform to make it go up the corridor. Before crashing into the crystals above, jump to the left, then fall a bit before dashing right to hit the left side of the angry platform again. Land on top of it and ride it to the left some more, then dash down on it again to lead it upward even more. Dash to the left into the right side of the angry platform when it reaches the top to make it go right and land back on it, then duck to avoid the crystals above, then jump and dash to then climb up to the end of the room.

Many extremely tight dashes must be done in this room with good timing on feather flight to get through gaps in crystals. Avoiding slight movement aside from straight vertical movement helps these dashes become easier. Dash into the first feather and go straight up, then dash straight to the left when you reach the level of the gap. You'll then hit another feather, which you should move slightly to the left as you go downward, then continue straight down and dash to the left into the next gap and reach another feather. Ride this feather straight up, moving a bit to the right and a bit to the left when needed, then dash straight to the right when you reach the level of the gap to the right. When reaching the dash crystals, follow the dash directions very obviously and you'll be able to finish the room.

This room has some skull binoculars available to preview the room, if needed. Bumpers will be needed to make it over crystals in this room and the bounce direction will be important to master for this room. Jump over the first bumper and dash right into the left side of it, then hold no buttons. From the position you arrive at, fall a bit and dash up-left to land directly in the middle of the top of the next bumper. Move a bit to the right after you bounce, then dash straight up and move to the left in the air to hit another bumper. From your bounce, dash up into the feather and guide it down and around to the opening in the crystals on the right where you can then dash up-right to climb to the end of the room.

When you get on top of the first angry platform, dash downward onto it and jump to the right to get a big boost upward allowing you to make it over the wall of crystals. When you reach the right side of the next angry platform, you have two ways of approaching the next section. The first method is to wall jump off the angry platform and dash up-right into the feather, fly it up to the key token above then back down to eventually dash into the right side of the angry platform and jump off of it to reach the ending ledge when you can. The second method is to dash into the right side of the angry platform at the beginning and hold onto it, then jump into the feather and go up to the key token and back down. Then, aim the feather right as it goes down and either go over the angry platform or grab the left side of the angry platform, then dash into the right side of the angry platform until you can jump to the ending ledge.

Aim to dash straight left into the middle right part of the first bumper and hold no inputs afterward. Dash straight up when at the right side of the next bumper and move left a bit to bounce into it. Dash up-right over the crystals to the right, then fall down and to the left into another bumper's upper right side. You can bounce to the right and then dash straight up the grab the platform and climb it. Jump to the right to bounce on the bumper that's all the way to the right which will refresh your dash, then dash up-right to go over the crystal and bounce on the bumper's upper right side. Then, you can dash up-right to reach the end.

This room will have some moving bumpers and disappearing platforms over a bottomless pit. Bounce to the right using the first bumper and you can dash to make it to the first set of disappearing platforms. Time jumping to the right for when the bumper moves to the left so that you can bounce on it and stall a bit to dash up-right onto it again under the crystals from the ceiling, then bounce again to dash to the next set of disappearing platforms. The next bumper will move up and down and the timing will be hard to pin down. Try to jump off the top disappearing platform when the bumper is at its lowest so that you'll arrive as it starts moving up again. At this point, dash left into it to get a bounce to the right which you can then follow up with an up-right dash to land on another disappearing platform. Jump to the right and dash up-right on top of the last bumper, then dash straight up and you'll reach the end of the room.

This room has some skull binoculars available to preview the room, if needed. This room has a lot of elements and will be very tricky to figure out on a first playthrough. Dash into the right side of the angry platform to take it to the right and jump off of it to collect a feather above. Circle upward to collect the key token and go down to dash into the angry platform's right side again after it's hit the falling platform to the right and knocked it down. Grab onto the angry platform and ride it until you need to jump into the platform above the set of crystals and collect the dash crystal. Quickly jump up and dash into the bumper to bounce yourself to the right, then fall until you can dash into the angry platform's right side again to ride it to the right even more. Jump up to the ledge above and hit the dash crystal, then jump and dash to the left into the right side of the upper angry platform. Before you're crushed in the crystals to the right, jump onto the wall above, jump to the left and collect the dash crystal and grab the left side of the angry platform as it moves back left. Climb up a bit, then jump up into the key token above and go over to the right side and fall down to dash left into the angry platform still retreating from earlier and you can collect the last key token. Grab the angry platform and it will take you to the end.

Start is the first subchapter of Chapter 7: The Summit in Celeste. The subchapter starts with Madeline looking up at the mountain and then she soars up and arrives at the first room. This subchapter has some simple areas to give the player some practice with their new double mid-air dash. Purple orbs in the last room of the subchapter are used to give Madeline a boost up for the first time in the game and when she reaches the final purple orb, she and Badeline will talk before arriving in the next subchapter.

All of the rooms in this subchapter will make the player utilize both mid-air dashes to get across. The first room pits a heap of crystals at the beginning which needs 2 diagonal dashes to get over, and the rooms afterward are bottomless and will need 2 dashes to maneuver through. In the fourth room of the subchapter, the springs will force the player to dash the other direction twice to advance over them. The fifth room of the subchapter will make the player dash right, then up into the dash crystals to get across.

The star piece of the Crystal Heart of this chapter is located in the seventh and last room of this subchapter. After bouncing on the final spring, dash twice diagonally to the right above the final purple orb and a secret area will reveal itself on the right ledge which holds the star piece.

There are 4 Strawberries found in this subchapter (not including the Golden Strawberry which spawns in the first room).

In the third room of the subchapter, above the first spring's location are some crystals. There is a gap in these crystals which can be dashed up and open a hidden area. In the room above, the Strawberry is right there to claim, but the escape will be a challenge. Jump and dash up into the Strawberry, then dash into the wall and climb up it. Jump off the wall and dash to the left and continue left to land on the floor. Jump from this floor to the left and dash diagonally up-left the climb the wall and at the top, dash right to land on the other bit of floor. By going up above this section, another area is found at the top which is just dashing over some crystals and then you can get out and claim the berry.

At the end of the fifth room of the subchapter, go to the left and dash up into the oddity in the ceiling to break a smashable wall and gain access to a room above. There are 2 berries to be found in this room. To get the one on the left, stand below the spring and dash twice up to it and bounce to the left. As you fall to the level of the Strawberry, dash right into it and then dash left to get out. When you fall to the dash crystal below, dash to the right twice quickly to make it back to safety.

This Strawberry will be found in the same room as the last one, except on the right side instead of the left. Dash up and grab the green part of the ceiling hanging in the middle of the room, then jump to grab the floating platform on the right's left side. Jump up from there and dash to the right to collect the dash crystal, then fall to the Strawberry and dash up, then left to get out of the area.

Found in the sixth room of the subchapter, this Strawberry will be hovering above some crystals in the middle of the room. There is a multitude of possible ways to get this berry safely, but the most reliable one is to hold onto the floating platform which is 2 to the left of where the Strawberry is hovering above. Climb to the top of the right side of that floating platform and jump to the right, doing 2 diagonal up-right dashes to get to the berry and get out.

07 - The Summit (No More Running Mix)

Start is the first subchapter of Chapter 7: The Summit B-Side in Celeste. The subchapter is short and makes most of its challenges around using springs and making tight dashes through crystals. In the final room, after reaching the purple orb at the end, the player will be taken to the next subchapter.

Every subchapter in Chapter 7's B-Side will have exactly four rooms. This one, not being based on any previous chapter, will not have much variety in its objects. Some precise aim with your two dashes and good timing to narrowly avoid touching crystals will make up most of the difficulty in this subchapter.

To start off, jump on the first spring and start moving right a bit, then when you line yourself up with the gap in the heap of crystals, dash straight right. Then, after falling a bit to the right, dash straight right again through the gap in the next heap of crystals and you'll land on a spring. After bouncing, move right and dash straight right, then quickly dash straight up to reach the small platform amidst the crystals which you can jump to the right off of to reach the end of the room.

Jump off the ledge to the right and dash straight right, then straight up and move into the spring on the wall. After being bounced right, dash straight up, then diagonally up-left and hit the next spring. After being bounced, dash back straight left, then straight up and move left to bounce off of one more spring. You'll then fall a bit freely, then once you are lined up with some gaps in the crystals to the right, dash straight right once, fall a bit, and then do it again.

Jump and dash all the way to the first spring, then before you're bounced too far to the left dash up-right and then straight right to reach the right side of the pillar, then fall into the spring on the right side and be bounced to the right. With this bounce, keep moving right as you dash diagonally up-right over some crystals from the bottom, then straight right to hit another spring and be bounced back to the left. Next, you'll need to dash straight up, then carefully line yourself up to dash straight right through the small gap of crystals and immediately start moving back left to touch the spring and be bounced further right. Do a straight up dash, then fall to the right, then once you are lined up you can dash straight up again and hit the spring above for another bounce right. Do a dash to the right through the gap of crystals, then up-right to make it over the last few crystals and reach the end.

Jump off the ledge and dash straight right, then straight up and hit the first spring. You'll be bounced right, and you can then dash straight right and grab the wall. Jump to the left and dash straight up to reach the purple orb, which will launch you upwards to the next section. Dash straight left at the height of your launch, then fall a bit and dash straight left again to reach the purple orb again. Dash straight left after being launched up, then do it again once you'll fallen below the crystals on the left. Climb up the wall until you can jump off it and into the purple orb again. After it launches you upward, dash straight right twice and fall into the spring which will allow you dash again into the purple orb. Grab the right wall and prepare to jump all the way to the left, doing a straight left dash and then a very tight straight upward dash to hit the purple orb a final time and be taken to the next subchapter.

04 - Golden Ridge (Golden Feather Mix)

Stepping Stones is the second subchapter of Chapter 4: Golden Ridge B-Side in Celeste. The subchapter brings back wind for most of its rooms and has no real gimmick otherwise.

With one exception, there will be wind in all of the rooms of this subchapter. While the A-Side's second subchapter had a focus on many optional paths to take, there's nothing of the sort here. This subchapter, much like every subchapter in chapter 4 B-Side, has no overarching gimmick so the gameplay is largely similar across them all.

For the first room up, the titular stepping stones are here as disappearing platforms and harsh wind will be blowing to the left. Make your way to the right edge of the starting area, then jump and dash straight right. Jump again quickly from there, then dash diagonally up-right. After that, run right a bit and eventually dash straight right again to fall into the green bubble below. Aim this green bubble up-right to land on the disappearing platform and dash right from there into the other green bubble. Take this green bubble also up-right and dash up-right when you exit it to land on another disappearing platform. Jump to the left and dash straight up just to the right of the disappearing platform above so you can land on it and jump and dash straight right all the way across the other ones and to the end of the room.

The wind will blow to the right in this room, so with your jump to the right you can dash up-right and land on the far away disappearing platform. Jump and dash up from there to climb up the platform above, then jump into the green bubble. This green bubble should be taken straight right, and then immediately dash straight right after you get out of it. Slide down the right wall until you're about to fall into the crystal spikes, and then jump to the left and slide down the left side wall. Jump off the wall to land on the small disappearing platform  to refresh your dash, then jump and dash up into the green bubble above. Aim the green bubble up-left, then dash up-right into the last green bubble and take it straight right, then dash straight right.

This room has some skull binoculars available to preview the room, if needed. This room is a tall vertical ascent through a thin corridor, only aided by a single triggered platform, and it will be very tricky for newer players. Grab the triggered platform and jump to the right wall as you approach the first set of crystals, then quickly climb up a bit and jump back to the left and re-grab the triggered platform. Then you want to climb a bit and jump to the right onto the spring as soon as possible so that you can get back to the triggered platform. In quick succession, you need to jump off the right wall to grab the triggered platform, then jump upward and do a wall jump to the left off of the right wall, then get back to the left side of the triggered platform and grab it. Climb up it quickly and jump to the right side of it, then grab the right side and wait a bit. When you reach the open area above, either jump over the top of the triggered platform and dash into the dash crystal or, if your stamina is low, let it bring you a bit higher and let go of it to dash diagonally up-left below it. Dash again up-left after regaining your dash, then you can climb up the walls to make it to the end of the room.

You'll need to collect four key tokens in this room while the wind is blowing to the right a bit. Jump to the center of the room grab the wall from the right side. For the top key token, climb up the wall and wait until the spring on the moving platform is starting to move right. Jump to the right and dash up-right to collect the key token and fall onto the spring, then keep going left to keep bouncing on it until you're safe. For the one on the left, fall down and dash to the left into the green bubble. Aim it to the left, then climb the left wall. When the moving platform with the spring reaches the left side, jump to the right to collect the key token and dash when needed to land on the spring and safely continue on. For the middle-lower one, just fall down to where it is while the moving platform is moving right and dash straight up back onto the spring. The bottom-right key one should be collected last as it's the easiest and closest to the key-activated platform which will lower itself when all four tokens are collected. After collecting the last key token, jump and dash to the right and climb the wall to then jump onto the key-activated platform and dash up above it to find the end corridor.

Start by dashing into the first green bubble and aim it into the next green bubble. Aim that one up-right and dash up-right as well to land on the first disappearing platform. Jump across these to then climb the right wall. Jump to the left and dash straight up into the green bubble above and aim it straight right, then dash straight right. Land on the disappearing platform in the area below and then jump and dash to the right into another green bubble. Aim this one upward and dash straight upward to land on yet another disappearing platform. Jump into the green bubble to the left and launch yourself straight left, then dash up into the last green bubble which should be aimed to the right, followed by a straight right dash.

07 - The Summit (No More Running Mix)

The Summit C-Side is the C-Side of Chapter 7: The Summit in Celeste. This C-Side features some vertical wind rooms along with one of the longest and toughest rooms in the game at the end. At the end, before making it to the Crystal Heart to complete the level, the Old Woman can be seen and the player can talk to her.

Only the summit of the mountain is featured in the C-Side and the vertically blowing wind makes a return in it, though in a different order than seen before. The first room has wind blowing upward to simulate low gravity and tasks the player with doing many wall bounces in a row to get up. The second room has wind blowing downward to simulate high gravity and is a small area where springs must be aimed at to advance. The final room is an iconic and difficult room spanning a very long horizontal distance, making the player do extremely precise maneuvers the entire way through to dodge crystals and hit every spring.

This room has some skull binoculars available to preview the room, if needed. Above the player is a long corridor with crystals on both sides and just some small bits coming off the walls to utilize. Jump to the right and dash straight up to wall bounce, then with the low gravity you'll be able to make it up to the next point you need to wall bounce off of on the left side, followed by collecting a dash crystal. Do another wall bounce on the left side and go right to get past some crystals. Dash straight right into the next dash crystal, then dash straight up to do another wall bounce. Do another wall bounce off the area above to collect another dash crystal, then another one, and one more to reach another dash crystal. If you miss any of these, you can relatively safely fall down to the lower section and try again with the dash crystals below. After doing these four wall bounces, you'll then just need to fall to the right and dash twice straight right through the obvious gaps in the crystals to reach the purple orb that will take you to the next room.

The wind will now blow you down and limit the height you can get, so to make it up to the spring above just dash straight up twice in a row. After being bounced to the right, keep going right and dash diagonally up-right onto another spring which is on a falling platform. Keep going right after this bounce and dash straight right, then straight up to hit a spring on the right side of another falling platform. Fall for a bit, then move left and dash up-left into the key token and the falling platform's spring at the same time. After this, you can dash up-right and straight up to start climbing the key-activated platform which descends on the right side and after standing on it just jump and dash right twice to make it to the purple orb which will take you to the last room.

This room has some skull binoculars available to preview the room, if needed. For this entire room, you'll need to be very focused and precise to do the tight platforming that is to come. Begin by jumping to the right and dashing to the first pink cloud. Do a bounce up from this, then dash straight right and fall into the area below carefully. Dash straight left into the first spring, then before you're bounced into the crystals to the right you should dash straight up and move to the right, then fall a bit before dashing up-right and moving further right to make it to another spring. Bounce to the right on this next spring, then just before you collide with the tall set of crystals, dash straight up twice and move to the right. Carefully move to the right during the fall and then bounce off of the next spring below. Dash up-left shortly after the bounce, then straight up to bounce right off another spring. Fall through the crystals below with light movement to the right and left, then after getting below you can dash straight right and straight up into another spring. From this spring bounce, dash up-right and then up-left to hit another spring and be bounced further right. Fall through the designated gap in the crystals below, then dash straight right once and then again after falling a bit further to land on a pink cloud, which you should immediately jump off of to the right. After jumping right, dash straight up twice to bounce on another spring. Keep moving right after the bounce, then dash straight right at a point where you can then dash straight up and wall bounce off of the tiny platform and collect a dash crystal after doing so. Dash straight right twice after this to land on a pink cloud, which you should bounce on while moving right a bit, then move left a bit after the bounce starts to avoid crystals above. Dash straight up, then up-right and move to the right so that you can hit another spring and be bounced further right. This last stretch will be a corridor of constant dashing and refreshing in multiple directions. Dash straight right to get in, then fall and dash straight right to claim a dash crystal. Dash straight right, then straight up, then straight up again and straight right again. Start moving back left as you fall into another dash crystal, then dash straight right followed by dashing up-right. Keep going right, then dash straight right and up-right again. Dash up-right again, then you can either dash up-left or be safer by dashing straight up and moving a bit left to collect the last dash crystal. Dash up-right, fall a bit, then dash straight right to get to the end, but not before grabbing the falling platform on the left edge and jumping up it to get to real safety. From here, just go to the right and you'll see the Old Woman there, who you should talk to for a bit of motivation as well as to remove her dialogue trigger which cancels your ability to jump so that you can then go jump to the right and dash up-right twice to collect the Crystal Heart and complete the level.

Alex (Sister)Carlos (Grandfather)

Theo is a supporting character in Celeste, who climbs the mountain alongside Madeline. He is an aspiring photographer who climbs Celeste Mountain primarily to take pictures that will boost his followers on InstaPix, and acts as a companion to Madeline on her journey. He appears at various points in the story to speak to Madeline as well as assuming a more active role in the story from the end of Chapter 4 to the beginning of Chapter 6.

Theo is a tall Brazilian-American man with a dark brown skin complexion, brown eyes,[3] and curly brown hair with a large beard. Throughout the game, he wears a green checkered coat, dark blue pants, a yellow scarf and a brown backpack. He has a several tattoos: two circle designs on his left shoulder,[4] a feather on the back of his neck,[5] and an intricate floral design on his left forearm.[6]

Theo is a laid-back, friendly and happy-go-lucky young man, with an obsession for social media. He loves taking pictures, and just wants to have fun exploring Celeste Mountain. He often does "goofy" things during the course of the game, such as falling face-first off a small cliff to reunite with Madeline (in Chapter 4) and randomly taking mirror selfies in an ancient temple (in Chapter 5).

Despite being somewhat of a comic relief, he also displays maturity towards wanting to get the most out of his life and acts as emotional support for Madeline during the climb.

Theo lived (and presumably grew up) somewhere in California[7] with his late grandfather Carlos,[8][9] younger sister Alex,[10] and cat Spoons.[2][11][12]

He eventually moved to Seattle, Washington[12] to start a new unspecified desk job,[13] leaving Spoons in the care of his sister back home[10][12] (and stealing Alex's Walkman and at least one cassette tape to listen to on the trip).[14] When he arrived in Seattle, he lived with a friend named AJ for his first week there.[1] Theo hated his new job[15] and quickly quit, deciding instead to take a bus to Vancouver, British Columbia,[16] Canada[17] with the intention of climbing Celeste Mountain like his grandfather.[18]

While on the road, Theo learned Alex successfully got into law school and was very proud of her.[10] Once he reached Vancouver, he visited Stanley Park[16] before hitchhiking the rest of the way to Celeste Mountain with a pair of locals.[19]

In Chapter 3, he enters the hotel before Madeline, and is frightened by Mr. Oshiro. During the Huge Mess section of the chapter, he can be seen trying to pull the grate off an air vent in the laundry room when Madeline encounters him. He tells Madeline that Mr. Oshiro could be dangerous and that she should escape the hotel along with him, but she declines, wanting to help him clean up. After this, Theo crawls through the vent alone to escape.

In Chapter 4, Theo encounters Madeline once again, by rather comically falling off a small cliff. He rides the Gondola with Madeline, talking with her for a while, and then taking a selfie. However, the Gondola suddenly stalls out and lurches (caused by Badeline), and Theo accidentally breaks the lever. This sends Madeline into a panic attack, but Theo successfully calms her down by teaching her a breathing exercise involving a floating feather (controlled by the player). The Gondola then resumes, and Madeline thanks Theo for helping her calm down. They both laugh at the terrible photo that resulted from the lurch as Chapter 5 begins.

At the beginning of Chapter 5, Theo rushes into the temple, excited to explore and take photos, despite Madeline's protests. After taking a mirror selfie, he becomes stuck inside the mirror, and eventually winds up trapped in a crystal, made out of his own psychic energy, unable to move. Eventually Madeline arrives and carries him out of the temple.

At the beginning of Chapter 6, Theo has a long conversation with Madeline regarding their origin of their mountain climbs, why they decided to do it, and what personal struggles they are dealing with. He also tells her about his sister - Alex, who has a lot of similarities with the main protagonist. After that, they both take a selfie as a way to remember their conversation, and go to sleep. He later wakes up during Madeline's encounter with Part of Herself. After she falls, Theo runs down to the cavern to find her. He later appears at the end of the chapter, relieved that Madeline is unharmed, and remarks that Badeline looks like "an adorable goth Madeline".

He later appears during the Epilogue, waiting for Madeline at home with the rest of their friends. Madeline later bakes a pie for them, and his reaction depends on the amount of strawberries the player has collected.

After the events of the climb, Theo spends some time with the Old Woman before returning to California to be there for Alex.[21][4][22] The Old Woman tells Madeline this during Chapter 8.

Following the events of the game and another visit to Madeline in Vancouver, Theo ultimately decides to take a break from social media, saying goodbye and wishing well to his followers.[6]

"Selfies are always worth it, dude." - Chapter 1

"Madeline, you just saved my life. That's not pointless." - Chapter 6

05 - Mirror Temple (Mirror Magic Mix)

Through the Mirror is the third subchapter of Chapter 5: Mirror Temple B-Side in Celeste. The subchapter brings the player to the corrupted version of the temple inside of the mirror, littered with Seekers and other related objects.

In this subchapter, most challenges will make heavy use of bouncing on the heads of Seekers to make tricky jumps. That, and using Seekers to boost yourself a great distance, will be required to complete most of the rooms.

This tall room will start you at the top and will have corrupted spikes all over. You can go either left or right to descend, then keep holding that way until you reach the outer wall. Do a jump off, then grab the next bit of the wall seen below. Jump to the middle and do a straight upward dash into the dash switch, then fall until you reach the dash crystal below. Dash to the right immediately and fall into another dash crystal, then hold left a bit as you keep falling. Dash straight to the right into the dash switch on the wall further down, then jump off into the next dash crystal. With it, dash straight to the left to then grab the left wall. To make it through the corridor below as safely as possible, climb up this left wall as far as possible, then hold right after letting go of the grab button to always safely be able to continue falling down. Fall down another corridor below and you can use your reclaimed dash to go to the right inbetween the corrupted spikes on the wall to reach the end of the room.

This room has four key tokens in a diamond pattern with a Seeker and no floor. For a consistent completion, jump to the right off the ledge and then dash up-left, collecting a key token, and grab the wall. Right after this, jump slightly and you should land on the Seeker's head. Do a bounce to the right and dash up-right into another key token, then keep holding right to collect another one and grab the right wall. By holding exactly where you are, the Seeker should charge at you and collect the last key token, so just jump over it and you can get out of the room while it recoils.

Jump to the right and dash up-right onto the platform, then dash right again to get inbetween the next two floating platforms. Slide down the left one's right side and jump to the right into the dash crystal, then dash up-right into the dash switch. Do some wall jumps and jump through the barrier into the next area of the room. Jump off the left wall to the right and dash to the right when you hit the dash crystal. From there, bait the nearby Seeker into dashing into you and try to bounce on its head while it does so. This will let you get back your dash, allowing you to jump up to the middle floating platform and dash into the dash switch above and open the temple gate. Land on the Seeker another time to reclaim your dash and use it to get to the end of the room.

Fall into the first red bubble and take it up-right for a bit, allowing the Seeker to pass, then dash down-right into the next one. Take this next red bubble up-right again, then dash right and grab the red wall. Allow the Seeker to charge into it and break it, but just before it does you have to jump up and aim to land on the Seeker. The Seeker will be knocked back to the left a bit, so aim your landing there. Fall to the right and use your dash up-left to grab the next red wall. Repeat the Seeker baiting process again, then repeat it again for the third and final red wall. Note that a Seeker's "explosion" when it reforms after being bounced on can also destroy a red wall, so if this is aligned properly you can jump straight up off the red wall and go right after it's destroyed to move on just the same.

In this room, there's a gap to the right which seems impossible to cross, but it possible with the help of the one Seeker in the room. Jump across the disappearing platforms, dashing accordingly to just make it to the right of the section with two disappearing platforms, one above another, and a ledge up above. Land on top of the Seeker in this area, then aim to be just to the right of it when it does its explosion and you'll be blasted to the right, easily allowing you to climb and dash to the end of the room.

Unravelling is the third subchapter of Chapter 5: Mirror Temple in Celeste. The subchapter formally introduces Seekers, red walls, and barriers, as well as corrupted spikes. At the start of the subchapter, Madeline will confront Badeline multiple times asking her what's going on, only to realize this wasn't her doing at all.

This subchapter is very linear, having no branching paths. In the fifth room of the subchapter, a Seeker will break out of a background statue as you pass it, and these enemies will continue to appear in the succeeding rooms. Many rooms will involve collecting key tokens scattered all around a room and potentially utilizing Seekers to grab them as they will collect them for the player if touching one while charging. None of the rooms here will have more than 1 Seeker.

There is 1 Strawberry found in this subchapter.

Found in the sixth room of the subchapter, you'll need to lure the Seeker into the red wall on the right to break it and expose this Strawberry as well as a spring.

Variant Mode is a special feature in Celeste that allows the player to modify certain mechanics or options to change the gameplay or create different challenges.

In order to unlock Variant Mode, the player has to complete Chapter 8: Core C-Side, which requires the player to obtain 23 Crystal Hearts before they will be able to proceed. Finishing the level will enable the option in the save menu. It can also be unlocked by activating cheat mode on any savefile.

A save with Variant Mode enabled can be recognized by a purple badge with a pencil image on it sticking out from the postcard.

Changes the overall game speed, causing everything to move either faster or slower, depending on the player's choice. The speed can be set to any multiple of 10% between 50% and 160%.

Causes the entire level to appear mirrored. It doesn't reverse the player's controls.

Allows the player to dash in any direction without being limited to certain angles, making it easier to do precise dashes with an analog stick. This feature has minimal effect on keyboard, only allowing the player to slightly alter their dash direction after dashing.

This ability to change the direction of the dash can be coupled with the Super Dashing setting (and infinite air dashes if the player wishes to continue building speed) to allow the player to reach very high speeds very quickly. This can be done when the player dashes diagonally down, holding the direction they are moving in, then dashing diagonally up before the first dash is over, again holding the direction they are moving in. If the player wishes to continue gaining more speed, they can repeat this process.

360 Dashing can also be paired with Super Dashing to allow the player to carry their momentum over very long distances. To do this, the player must press the dash button before the dash runs out, but after the dash has recharged. The player must dash diagonally or horizontally in the direction they are moving in to carry their momentum.

Causes the player to turn invisible whenever they're moving; however, their particles and shadow can still be seen. It's often used for challenges or unique speedrunning categories.

Disables the ability to grab and hold on walls. The player will still be able to jump off of walls, and pressing the grab button will still trigger certain objects such as zippers.

Causes the ground and walls to become more slippery, making it harder for the player to stop their momentum or stay on walls. It can be seen very well when the player dashes through the surface of a platform. This also makes neutral jumping harder.

Makes dashes last twice as long, allowing the player to reach much higher distances with them. It has no effect on dash-related techniques or tricks.

Makes the character do constant hiccups, which make them bounce up slightly. They also make the player jump off of a wall or even stay in air for a split second if timed well. Crouching will slightly slow the rate at which hiccups occur. The hiccups appear randomly and they're mostly used for various challenges.

Changes Madeline's sprite to appear as Badeline, allowing players to move around as Part of Herself. It's a purely cosmetic feature and it doesn't affect gameplay at all.

Assists normally appear in Assist Mode, which is accessible since the very beginning of the game; however, Variant Mode serves as an alternate way to access this mode.

Disables the stamina mechanic, allowing the player to climb walls without worrying about running out of stamina.

Changes the amount of dashes the player can use in a certain point of the game. The options are Default, 2 and Infinite, while default keeps the amounts of dashes the game normally has. When the option is set to 2 or Infinite, Madeline's hair changes to pink.

Whenever the player uses a dash, holding the dash button will cause the screen to temporarily freeze until the player releases it. An arrow appears pointing at the direction to show where the player is about to dash. This feature is helpful for people who struggle with performing certain dash timings or for practicing certain dash related tricks and techniques. This is exclusive to PC.

Makes the player immune to almost everything, including falling into a pit or getting crushed by an obstacle. When a block falls on the player or causes something that normally would kill them, the block will have a passable hitbox until the player will be able to get out of its way.

The only obstacle that the player isn't immune to is the Heart Gate, which can crush the player no matter what.
